# "1. Make fleeting notes. […] 2. Make literature notes. Whenever you read something, make notes about the content. Write down what you don't want to forget or think you might use in your own thinking or writing. Keep it very short, be extremely selective, and use your own words. Be extra selective with quotes - don't copy them to skip the step of really understanding what they mean. Keep these notes together with the bibliographic details in one place - your reference system. 3. Make permanent notes. Now turn to your slip-box. Go through the notes you made in step one or two (ideally once a day and before you forget what you meant) and think about how they relate to what is relevant for your own research, thinking or interests. […] write as if you were writing for someone else: Use full sentences, disclose your sources, make references and try to be as precise, clear and brief as possible. Throw away the fleeting notes from step one and put the literature notes from step two into your reference system. You can forget about them now. […] 4. Now add your new permanent notes to the slip-box by: a) Filing each one behind one or more related notes […] Look to which note the new one directly relates or, if it does not relate directly to any other note yet, just file it behind the last one. […] b) Adding links to related notes. c) Making sure you will be able to find this note later by either linking to it from your index or by making a link to it on a note that you use as an entry point to a discussion or topic and is itself linked to the index. […] 5. Develop your topics, questions and research projects bottom up from within the system. See what is there, what is missing and what questions arise. Read more to challenge and strengthen your arguments and change and develop your arguments according to the new information you are learning about. […] Even if you don't have anything in your slip-box yet, you never start from scratch - you already have ideas on your mind to be tested, opinions to be challenged and questions to be answered. Do not brainstorm for a topic. Look into the slip-box instead to see where chains of notes have developed and ideas have been built up to clusters. Don't cling to an idea if another, more promising one gains momentum. […] 6. After a while, you will have developed ideas far enough to decide on a topic to write about. Your topic is now based on what you have, not based on an unfounded idea about what the literature you are about to read might provide. Look through the connections and collect all the relevant notes on this topic (most of the relevant notes will already be in partial order), copy them onto your "desktop" [6] and bring them in order. Look for what is missing and what is redundant. […] 7. Turn your notes into a rough draft. Don't simply copy your notes into a manuscript. Translate them into something coherent and embed them into the context of your argument while you build your argument out of the notes at the same time. Detect holes in your argument, fill them or change your argument. 8. Edit and proofread your manuscript." (Ahrens 2017:29)