# "We can ask entrepreneurs, fund managers, mentors, and others who want to participate in building a Rainforest to sign such a physical contract. We can even make it a requirement for receiving incubation services, a grant, or capital. To sign, they must use a good old-fashioned pen. By signing, they are agreeing to abide by the norms that are necessary for growing a vibrant innovation ecosystem. The actual wording varies from place to place, as it should. Here is one example of what a Social Contract might look like: The Rainforest Social Contract I am joining a global community of people who share a common faith in the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship. I am open to meeting anyone in this community. I understand that I will receive valuable help from others for free or at a very low cost. I agree to "pay forward" whatever positive benefits I receive. For every introduction I get, I will provide an introduction to another person. For every hour of advice I receive, I will give an hour of advice to someone else. For every risk someone takes with me, I will take a risk with a different person. I will give trust to others before expecting to receive trust in return. I will treat everyone fairly. I will take advantage of no one. I will bring people together, as none of us is as smart as all of us. I will dream, experiment, iterate, and persist. I understand that mistakes and failure are acceptable ways of testing new ideas. I will open myself to learning from others. I will help nurture learning in others. Each person is a role model for everyone else. I will live these ideals as a member of the community." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:192)