# The next Silicon Valley will be in the cloud
#quote 

Naval: For a long time I had thought, despite the poor political governance, California was impregnable. It had too much of a network effect; the lock was too strong. But now I can see the cracks.

This pandemic, of course, is accelerating things, forcing people to work remotely. Twitter recently announced they’re going fully remote. Many of the companies that I’ve been involved with are wondering, “Should we even go back to having an office?” I wouldn’t be surprised if the next Silicon Valley moves to the cloud. That would be an incredibly good thing for all of humanity, because then we could distribute it. Obviously, some things can’t move to the cloud. You can’t have a semiconductor manufacturing plant in the cloud, but a lot of the initial coordination, invention, social networking, conversation, design work can happen in the cloud.

There is recent precedent for this. I don’t know how much you’ve been tracking the crypto revolution, but crypto obviously went through its big hype cycle a few years ago. At this point there’s a lot of innovation going on in crypto. We’re now in that silent under-the-radar phase where great entrepreneurs are building great products that will be more widely deployed in the next 5 to 10 years. What’s interesting about crypto is that it’s truly geographically distributed. Some of the biggest innovators in crypto are scattered all around the world. More than half of my crypto investments are outside of the Bay area, which is not true of any other class of investment that I do. Many of the top crypto innovators are anonymous, like Satoshi Nakamoto famously.

Crypto companies raise money in public, in plain sight, by issuing tokens so they’re not locked into the [Sand Hill Road](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sand_Hill_Road) venture capital model. The crypto system is starting with finance but is laying the foundation for future companies to be built completely distributed with potentially anonymous contributors, anonymous funding, anonymous cash and anonymous developers. There’s even a Holy Grail of crypto called autonomous organization, which are these companies that are smart contracts living in the block chain completely extra-sovereign outside of the state, able to engage in contract laws, contract enforcement, payments, dividends, investment, equity, debt, payouts, reputations and reconstructing the corporation—but modernizing it from the Magna Carta days to a modern code-based system living on a mathematical, reputation-based, anonymous blockchain.

I wouldn’t be surprised if 10 years from now that the rest of the tech industry is just as distributed as the crypto industry is today. California and the Bay area will still do fine. They will still be a hub. I don’t believe that innovators will get priced out of the Bay area, because innovators are the highest earners in history; they’re the most leveraged people. They’re leveraged through code, capital, media, labor, intelligence—they can create more than everybody else on a per capita basis. So they can always afford to live wherever they want to live. They won’t be forced out by prices, but they may be forced out by regulations. They may be forced out by not being able to go to work because the government forbids them. They may be forced out because the place is no longer attractive to live

If they are forced out, it would be amazing for everybody if they moved the cloud rather than to another physical location from which we may be displaced. In the examples that you gave, they’re punctuated. In between each one of them, there’s 50, 100, 200 years that pass where there is no place to innovate. Therefore, the rate of innovation collapses. So if innovation is the flower of a well-tended garden, if you have to uproot those flowers and shift them, there is a huge deadweight loss to society when, for decades or perhaps even centuries, we have to wait for another garden to emerge and for people to coalesce there for this right magic soup of deregulation combined with innovators, good weather and a rich society— all of that has to assemble.

Matt: Thank you very much for that, because that has filled in a gap in my understanding in one go. I’ve always been interested in the fact that these innovation bush fires eventually are extinguished by some combination of chiefs, priests and thieves, if you like. (Ridley, Matt. Matt Ridley: How Innovation Works, Part 1. Interviewt von Naval Ravikant, 9. Juli 2020. [https://nav.al/matt-ridley/](https://nav.al/matt-ridley/)).