# Tags?

Topic: Wissensmanagement
Topics: Design%20UI%20&%20Funktionalita%CC%88t%20a8abc7de888f4df7a7c19a930344ef0e.md
Type: Note

[**too much maintenance, spreading attention too uniformly across all notes**](Tags%2026791e9d61ef4e2eb4ac786ee09b9092/too%20much%20maintenance,%20spreading%20attention%20too%20unif%201fb7d2f265d1443382fa5752cf12ba02.md)

["I propose we make the design of individual notes the primary factor, instead of tags or notebooks." ([Forte 2017:4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DHH2FKWF?page=4))](Tags%2026791e9d61ef4e2eb4ac786ee09b9092/I%20propose%20we%20make%20the%20design%20of%20individual%20notes%20t%20bcdceb89ca8c414c88eb8db26d26f4e5.md)

["The way people choose their keywords shows clearly if they think like an archivist or a writer. Do they wonder where to store a note or how to retrieve it? The archivist asks: Which keyword is the most fitting? A writer asks: In which circumstances will I want to stumble upon this note, even if I forget about it? It is a crucial difference. […] Keywords should always be assigned with an eye towards the topics you are working on or interested in, never by looking at the note in isolation. This is also why this process cannot be automated or delegated to a machine or program - it requires thinking. The Zettelkasten does make suggestions based on existing keywords and scans for keywords in the text you wrote. But it makes sense to see these suggestions more as a warning sign than an invitation to use them: these are the most obvious ideas and probably not the best ones. Good keywords are usually not already mentioned as words in the note. […] Assigning keywords is much more than just a bureaucratic act. It is a crucial part of the thinking process, which often leads to a deeper elaboration of the note itself and the connection to other notes." ([Ahrens 2017:105](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=105))](Tags%2026791e9d61ef4e2eb4ac786ee09b9092/The%20way%20people%20choose%20their%20keywords%20shows%20clearly%20a122a53bd14e43e0a97fc3d4c93ba214.md)

[Schlagwörter = Topics?](Tags%2026791e9d61ef4e2eb4ac786ee09b9092/Schlagwo%CC%88rter%20=%20Topics%207cbfdbba38ba463ca723ad2f644fd1fd.md)