#source 

# Mortimer Jerome Adler and Charles Lincoln Van Doren, *How to Read a Book*, Rev. and updated ed (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1972).

"we moderns are inundated with facts to the detriment of understanding. One of the reasons for this situation is that the very media we have mentioned are so designed as to make thinking seem unnecessary (though this is only an appearance). The packaging of intellectual positions and views is one of the most active enterprises of some of the best minds of our day. The viewer of television, the listener to radio, the reader of magazines, is presented with a whole complex of elements—all the way from ingenious rhetoric to carefully selected data and statistics—to make it easy for him to "make up his own mind" with the minimum of difficulty and effort. But the packaging is often done so effectively that the viewer, listener, or reader does not make up his own mind at all. Instead, he inserts a packaged opinion into his mind, somewhat like inserting a cassette into a cassette player. He then pushes a button and "plays back" the opinion whenever it seems appropriate to do so." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:17f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=17))

"all reading must to some degree be active. Completely passive reading is impossible; we cannot read with our eyes immobilized and our minds asleep." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:18](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=18))

"the pitcher and catcher are successful only to the extent that they cooperate. The relation of writer and reader is similar. [...] The writer's skill and the reader's skill converge upon a common end. Admittedly, writers vary, just as pitchers do. Some writers have excellent "control"; they know exactly what they want to convey, and they convey it precisely and accurately. Other things being equal, they are easier to "catch" than a "wild" writer without "control." There is one respect in which the analogy breaks down. The ball is a simple unit. It is either completely caught or not. A piece of writing, however, is a complex object. It can be received more or less completely" ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:19](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=19))

"If the book is completely intelligible to you from start to finish, then the author and you are as two minds in the same mold. The symbols on the page merely express the common understanding you had before you met." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:20](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=20))

"reading newspapers, magazines, or anything else that, according to our skill and talents, is at once thoroughly intelligible to us. Such things may increase our store of information, but they cannot improve our understanding, for our understanding was equal to them before we started. Otherwise, we would have felt the shock of puzzlement and perplexity that comes from getting in over our depth—that is, if we were both alert and honest." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:21](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=21))

"To be informed is to know simply that something is the case. To be enlightened is to know, in addition, what it is all about: why it is the case, what its connections are with other facts, in what respects it is the same, in what respects it is different, and so forth. [...] Montaigne speaks of "an abecedarian ignorance that precedes knowledge, and a doctoral ignorance that comes after it. [...] The second is the ignorance of those who have misread many books. They are, as Alexander Pope rightly calls them, bookful blockheads, ignorantly read. There have always been literate ignoramuses who have read too widely and not well. The Greeks had a name for such a mixture of learning and folly which might be applied to the bookish but poorly read of all ages. They are all sophomores." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:23](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=23))

"call instruction "aided discovery". [...] A doctor may do many things for his patient, but in the final analysis it is the patient himself who must get well—grow in health. The farmer does many things for his plants or animals, but in the final analysis it is they that must grow in size and excellence. Similarly, although the teacher may help his student in many ways, it is the student himself who must do the learning. Knowledge must grow in his mind if learning is to take place." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:24](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=24))

"If, however, you ask a book a question, you must answer it yourself. In this respect a book is like nature or the world. [...] our continuing education depends mainly on books alone, read without a teacher 's help. Therefore if we are disposed to go on learning and discovering, we must know how to make books teach us well." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:26](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=26))

"As late as 1870, reading instruction was little changed from what it had been in Greek and Roman schools. In America, at least, the so-called ABC method was dominant throughout most of the nineteenth century. Children were taught to sound out the letters of the alphabet individually—hence the name of this method—and to combine them in syllables, first two letters at a time and then three and four, whether the syllables so constructed were meaningful or not." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:31](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=31))

"phonic method. Here the word was recognized by its sounds rather than by its letter-names. [...] A wholly different approach, analytical rather than synthetic, originated in Germany and was advocated by Horace Mann and other educators after about 1840. This involved teaching the visual recognition of whole words before giving any attention to letter-names or letter-sounds. This so-called sight method was later extended so that whole sentences, representing units of thought, were introduced first, with the pupils only later learning to recognize the constituent words and then, finally, the constituent letters. This method was especially popular during the 1920's and 30's, which period was also characterized by the shift in emphasis from oral reading to silent reading. [...] More recently, however, the pendulum has swung back again toward phonics [...]. It is traditional in America to criticize the schools; for more than a century, parents, self-styled experts, and educators themselves have attacked and indicted the educational system. No aspect of schooling has been more severely criticized than reading instruction." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:32](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=32))

"Skimming or pre-reading is the first sublevel of inspectional reading. Your main aim is to discover whether the book requires a more careful reading." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:40](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=40))

"TURN THE PAGES, DIPPING IN HERE AND THERE, READING A PARAGRAPH OR TWO, SOMETIMES SEVERAL PAGES IN SEQUENCE, NEVER MORE THAN THAT. Thumb through the book in this way, always looking for signs of the main contention, listening for the basic pulsebeat of the matter. Above all, do not fail to read the last two or three pages, or, if these are an epilogue, the last few pages of the main part of the book." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:42](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=42))

"In tackling a difficult book for the first time, read it through without ever stopping to look-up or ponder the things you do not understand right away. Pay attention to what you can understand and do not be stopped by what you cannot immediately grasp. Go right on reading past the point where you have difficulties in understanding, and you will soon come to things you do understand. Concentrate on these. [...] You will have a much better chance of understanding it on a second reading, but that requires you to have read the book through at least once. [...] Most of us were taught to pay attention to the things we did not understand. We were told to go to a dictionary when we met an unfamiliar word. We were told to go to an encyclopedia or some other reference work when we were confronted with allusions or statements we did not comprehend. We were told to consult footnotes, scholarly commentaries, or other secondary sources to get help. But when these things are done prematurely, they only impede our reading, instead of helping it." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:43](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=43))

"Many books are hardly worth even skimming; some should be read quickly; and a few should be read at a rate, usually quite slow, that allows for complete comprehension. It is wasteful to read a book slowly that deserves only a fast reading; speed reading skills can help you solve that problem. But this is only one reading problem. [...] With regard to rates of reading, then, the ideal is not merely to be able to read faster, but to be able to read at different speeds— and to know when the different speeds are appropriate." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:45](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=45))

"Place your thumb and first two fingers together. Sweep this "pointer" across a line of type, a little faster than it is comfortable for your eyes to move. Force yourself to keep up with your hand." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:46](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=46))

"Properly read, for full comprehension, those first two paragraphs of the Declaration might require days, or weeks, or even years. The problem of speed reading, then, is the problem of comprehension." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:47f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=47))

"Every book should be read no more slowly than it deserves, and no more quickly than you can read it with satisfaction and comprehension." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:48](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=48))

"If you have the habit of asking a book questions as you read, you are a better reader than if you do not. But, as we have indicated, merely asking questions is not enough. You have to try to answer them. And although that could be done, theoretically, in your mind only, it is much easier to do it with a pencil in your hand. The pencil then becomes the sign of your alertness while you read." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:52](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=52))

"Full ownership of a book only comes when you have made it a part of yourself, and the best way to make yourself a part of it—which comes to the same thing—is by writing in it. Why is marking a book indispensable to reading it? First, it keeps you awake—not merely conscious, but wide awake. Second, reading, if it is active, is thinking, and thinking tends to express itself in words, spoken or written. The person who says he knows what he thinks but cannot express it usually does not know what he thinks. Third, writing your reactions down helps you to remember the thoughts of the author. Reading a book should be a conversation between you and the author. Presumably he knows more about the subject than you do; if not, you probably should not be bothering with his book." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:53](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=53))

"1. UNDERLINING—of major points; of important or forceful statements.
2. VERTICAL LINES AT THE MARGIN—to emphasize a statement already underlined or to point to a passage too long to be underlined.
3. STAR, ASTERISK, OR OTHER DOODAD AT THE MARGIN—to be used sparingly, to emphasize the ten or dozen most important statements or passages in the book. You may want to fold a corner of each page on which you make such marks or place a slip of paper between the pages. In either case, you will be able to take the book off the shelf at any time and, by opening it to the indicated page, refresh your recollection.
4. NUMBERS IN THE MARGIN—to indicate a sequence of points made by the author in developing an argument.
5. NUMBERS OF OTHER PAGES IN THE MARGIN—to indicate where else in the book the author makes the same points, or points relevant to or in contradiction of those here marked; to tie up the ideas in a book, which, though they may be separated by many pages, belong together. Many readers use the symbol "Cf" to indicate the other page numbers; it means "compare" or "refer to."
6. CIRCLING OF KEY WORDS OR PHRASES—This serves much the same function as underlining.
7. WRITING IN THE MARGIN, OR AT THE TOP OR BOTTOM OF THE PAGE—to record questions (and perhaps answers) which a passage raises in your mind; to reduce a complicated discussion to a simple statement; to record the sequence of major points right through the book. The endpapers at the back of the book can be used to make a personal index of the author's points in the order of their appearance.
To inveterate book-markers, the front endpapers are often the most important. Some people reserve them for a fancy bookplate. But that expresses only their financial ownership of the book. The front endpapers are better reserved for a record of your thinking. After finishing the book and making your personal index on the back endpapers, turn to the front and try to outline the book, not page by page or point by point (you have already done that at the back), but as an integrated structure, with a basic outline and an order of parts. That outline will be the measure of your understanding of the work; unlike a bookplate, it will express your intellectual ownership of the book." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:53f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=53))

"Any book that tells you either what you should do or how to do it is practical." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:66](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=66))

"every book without exception that is worth reading at all has a unity and an organization of parts. A book that did not would be a mess. It would be relatively unreadable, as bad books actually are." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:74](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=74))

"The most readable book is an architectural achievement on the part of the author. The best books are those that have the most intelligible structure. Though they are usually more complex than poorer books, their greater complexity is also a greater simplicity, because their parts are better organized, more unified. That is one of the reasons why the best books are also the most readable. Lesser works are really more bothersome to read." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:76](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=76))

"1. Classify the book according to kind and subject matter.
2. State what the whole book is about with the utmost brevity.
3. Enumerate its major parts in their order and relation, and outline these parts as you have outlined the whole.
4. Define the problem or problems the author is trying to solve." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:89](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=89))

"a term is the basic element of communicable knowledge. [...] A term is not a word" ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:90](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=90))

"Many persons believe that they know how to read because they read at different speeds. But they pause and go slow over the wrong sentences. They pause over the sentences that interest them rather than the ones that puzzle them. Indeed, this is one of the greatest obstacles to reading a book that is not completely contemporary. Any old book contains facts that are somewhat surprising because they are different from what we know. But when you are reading for understanding it is not that kind of novelty that you are seeking. Your interest in the author himself, or in his language, or in the world in which he wrote, is one thing; your concern to understand his ideas is quite another. It is this concern that the rules we are discussing here can help you to satisfy, not your curiosity about other matters." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:110](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=110))

"5. Come to terms with the author by interpreting his key words.
6. Grasp the author's leading propositions by dealing with his most important sentences.
7. Know the author's arguments, by finding them in, or constructing them out of, sequences of sentences.
8. Determine which of his problems the author has solved, and which he has not; and as to the latter, decide which the author knew he had failed to solve." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:120](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=120))

"The most teachable reader is, therefore, the most critical." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:123](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=123))

"9. Do not begin criticism until you have completed your outline and your interpretation of the book. (Do not say you agree, disagree, or suspend judgment, until you can say "I understand.")
10. Do not disagree disputatiously or contentiously.
11. Demonstrate that you recognize the difference between knowledge and mere personal opinion by presenting good reasons for any critical judgment you make. [...]
12. Show wherein the author is uninformed.
13. Show wherein the author is misinformed.
14. Show wherein the author is illogical.
15. Show wherein the author's analysis or account is incomplete." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:141](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=141))

"the Oxford English Dictionary (known familiarly as the OED), begun in 1857, was a new departure, in that it did not try to dictate usage but instead to present an accurate historical record of every type of usage—the worst as well as the best, taken from popular as well as elegant writing. But this conflict between the lexicographer as self-appointed arbiter and the lexicographer as historian can be regarded as a side-issue, for the dictionary, however constructed, is primarily an educational instrument." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:152](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=152))

"Encyclopedias, like dictionaries, are valuable adjuncts to the reading of good books—bad books do not ordinarily require their presence; but, as before, it is wise not to enslave yourself to an encyclopedia. Again, as with dictionaries, encyclopedias are not to be used for the settling of arguments where these are based on differences of opinion. Nevertheless, they should be used to end disputes about matters of fact as quickly and permanently as possible. Facts should never be argued about in the first place. An encyclopedia makes this vain effort unnecessary, because encyclopedias are full of facts. Ideally, they are filled with nothing else. Finally, although dictionaries usually agree in their accounts of words, encyclopedias often do not agree in their accounts of facts." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:156f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=156))

"The most important thing to remember about any practical book is that it can never solve the practical problems with which it is concerned. A theoretical book can solve its own problems. But a practical problem can only be solved by action itself." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:163](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=163))

"Probably you have been a member of a jury, listening to the testimony about a simple matter of fact, such as an automobile accident. [...] you know how difficult it is to reconstruct the past, even a single event in the past, from the memories of persons who actually saw it happen. A court concerns itself with events that have happened fairly recently and in the presence of living witnesses. In addition, there are stringent rules of evidence. A witness cannot suppose anything, he cannot guess or hypothecate or estimate (except under very carefully controlled conditions). And of course he is not supposed to lie. [...] A historian is concerned with events that occurred, most of them, a long time ago. All the witnesses to the events are usually dead. What evidence they give is not given in a courtroom—that is, it is not governed by stringent and careful rules. Such witnesses as there are often guess, hypothecate, estimate, assume, and suppose. We cannot see their faces in order to judge whether they are lying (if we ever really can know that about anybody). They are not cross-examined. And there is no guarantee whatever that they know what they are talking about." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:196](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=196))

"We class history, the story of the past, more often under fiction than under science—if it must be affiliated with one or the other. If not, if history, that is, is allowed to rest somewhere in between the two main divisions of the kinds of books, then it is usually admitted that history is closer to fiction than to science." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:197f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=197))

""Poetry is more philosophical than history," wrote Aristotle. By this he meant that poetry is more general, more universal. A good poem is true not only in its own time and place, but in all times and places. It has meaning and force for all men. History is not quite so universal as that. It is tied to events in a way that poetry is not. But any good history is also universal. Thucydides himself said that he was writing his history so that men of the future would not have to repeat the mistakes he had seen made and from which he had suffered personally and through the agony of his country. He described the kinds of human mistakes that would have meaning to men other than himself, to men other than Greeks. [...] if you can, read more than one history of an event or period that interests you. The second is: read a history not only to learn what really happened at a particular time and place in the past, but also to learn the way men act in all times and places, especially now." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:200](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=200))

"it is almost insuperably difficult to become critically conscious of one's own habitual assumptions; "doctrines felt as facts" can only be seen to be doctrines, and not facts, after great efforts of thought, and usually only with the aid of a first-rate metaphysician." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:208](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=208))

"the very best articles, like the best books, cannot be condensed without loss. If the essays of Montaigne, for example, were appearing in a current periodical, we would scarcely be satisfied to read a digest of them. A summary, in this case, would function well only if it impelled us to read the original. For the average article, however, a condensation is usually adequate, and often even better than the original, because the average article is mainly informational." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:209](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=209))

"Until approximately the end of the nineteenth century, the major scientific books were written for a lay audience. [...] there was as yet no institutionalized specialization in those days, days which Albert Einstein called "the happy childhood of science." Intelligent and well-read persons were expected to read scientific books as well as history and philosophy; there were no hard and fast distinctions, no boundaries that could not be crossed. There was also none of the disregard for the general or lay reader that is manifest in contemporary scientific writing. Most modern scientists do not care what lay readers think, and so they do not even try to reach them." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:211](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=211))

"that famous remark of George Bernard Shaw's: "Those who can, do; those who can't, teach."" ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:212](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=212))

"Science is primarily inductive; that is, its primary arguments are those that establish a general proposition by reference to observable evidence—a single case created by an experiment, or a vast array of cases collected by patient investigation. There are other arguments, of the sort that are called deductive. These are arguments in which a proposition is proved by other propositions already somehow established. So far as proof is concerned, science does not differ much from philosophy." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:214](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=214))

"Some psychologists think there is such a thing as "symbol blindness"—the inability to set aside one's dependence on the concrete and to follow the controlled shifting of symbols. [...] We are not told, or not told early enough so that it sinks in, that mathematics is a language, and that we can learn it like any other, including our own. We have to learn our own language twice, first when we learn to speak it, second when we learn to read it. Fortunately, mathematics has to be learned only once, since it is almost wholly a written language." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:215](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=215))

"you should begin with Euclid, and we are confident that if you spent several evenings with the Elements you would overcome much of your fear of the subject. Having done some work on Euclid, you might proceed to glance at the works of other classical Greek mathematicians—Archimedes, Apollonius, Nicomachus. They are not really very difficult, and besides, you can skip." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:218](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=218))

"being sure to find and read the passages where Newton is making his main points. One of these comes at the very end of the work, at the close of Book III, which is titled "The System of the World." This General Scholium, as Newton called it, not only sums up what has gone before but also states the great problem of almost all subsequent physics. [...] Oddly enough, however, even if mathematics is absolutely terrifying to you, its absence from certain works may cause you even more trouble. A case in point is Galileo's Two New Sciences, his famous treatise on the strength of materials and on motion. This work is particularly difficult for modern readers because it is not primarily mathematical; instead, it is presented in the form of a dialogue. The dialogue form, though appropriate to the stage and useful in philosophy when employed by such a master as Plato, is not really appropriate to science. It is therefore hard to discover what Galileo is saying, although when you do you will discover that he is stating some revolutionary things." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:219](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=219))

"Mathematics is one of the major modern mysteries. Perhaps it is the leading one, occupying a place in our society similar to the religious mysteries of another age. If we want to know something about what our age is all about, we should have some understanding of what mathematics is, and of how the mathematician operates and thinks." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:221f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=221))

"there are at least five styles of exposition that have been employed by the great philosophers" ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:230](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=230))

1. THE PHILOSOPHICAL DIALOGUE

2. THE PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE OR ESSAY

3. THE MEETING OF OBJECTIONS

4. THE SYSTEMIZATION OF PHILOSOPHY ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:231ff](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=231))

"Descartes was a great mathematician and, although perhaps wrong on some points, a redoubtable philosopher. What he tried to do, essentially, was to clothe philosophy in mathematical dress—to give it the certainty and formal structure that Euclid, two thousand years before, had given geometry. Descartes was not wholly unsuccessful in this, and his demand for clarity and distinctness in thinking was to some extent justified in the chaotic intellectual climate of his time. He also wrote philosophical treatises in a more or less traditional form, including a set of replies to objections to his views. Spinoza carried the conception even farther. His Ethics is written in strict mathematical form, with propositions, proofs, corollaries, lemmas, scholiums, and the like. However, the subject matter of metaphysics and of morals is not very satisfactorily handled in this manner, which is more appropriate for geometry and other mathematical subjects than for philosophical ones. A sign of this is that when reading Spinoza you can skip a great deal, in exactly the same way that you can skip in Newton. You cannot skip anything in Kant or Aristotle, because the line of reasoning is continuous; and you cannot skip anything in Plato, any more than you would skip a part of a play or poem." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:233](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=233))

"5. THE APHORISTIC STYLE:
[...] The great advantage of the aphoristic form in philosophy is that it is heuristic; the reader has the impression that more is being said than is actually said, for he does much of the work of thinking—of making connections between statements and of constructing arguments for positions—himself. At the same time, however, this is the great disadvantage of the style, which is really not expositional at all. The author is like a hit-and-run driver; he touches on a subject, he suggests a truth or insight about it, and then runs off to another subject without properly defending what he has said. Thus, although the aphoristic style is enjoyable for those who are poetically inclined, it is irritating for serious philosophers who would rather try to follow and criticize an author's line of thought." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:234](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=234))

"The literature of social science is not confined to non-fiction. There is also a large and important category of contemporary writing that might be termed social-science fiction. Here the aim is to create artificial models of society that allow us, for example, to explore the social consequences of technological innovation. The organization of social power, the kinds of property and ownership, and the distribution of wealth are variously described, deplored, or lauded in novels, plays, stories, moving pictures, television shows." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:243](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=243))

"student enrollments in social science courses are running far ahead of enrollments in the more traditional literature and language courses. And enrollments in social science courses greatly exceed those in courses dealing with the "pure" sciences." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:244](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=244))

"Psychology, incidentally, is a prime example of a social science area that is currently enjoying great popularity among students. It is possible that enrollments in psychology across the country are larger than in any other subject. And the literature of psychology, at every level from the most technical to the most popular, is enormous." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:245](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=245))

"A great deal of social science writing seems like the easiest possible material to read. The data are often drawn from experiences familiar to the reader—in this respect, social science is like poetry or philosophy—and the style of exposition is usually narrative, already familiar to the reader through his reading of fiction and history. In addition, we have all become familiar with the jargon of social science and use it often. Such terms as culture (cross, counter, and sub), in-group, alienation, status, input/output, infra-structure, ethnic, behavioral, consensus, and scores like them, tend to appear in almost every conversation and in almost everything we read." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:245f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=245))

"Philosophy, too, deals with the world as we commonly know it, but we are not ordinarily "committed" on philosophical questions. But on matters with which social science deals, we are likely to have strong opinions." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:246](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=246))

"Much social science is a mixture of science, philosophy, and history, often with some fiction thrown in for good measure." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:248](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=248))

"Usually, differences in answers must be ascribed to different conceptions of the question as often as to different views of the subject." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:262](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=262))

"The syntopical reader, in short, tries to look at all sides and to take no sides. Of course, he will fail in this exacting ideal. Absolute objectivity is not humanly possible. He may succeed in taking no sides, presenting the issues without prejudice to any partisan point of view, and treating opposing views impartially. But it is easier to take no sides than to look at all sides. In this latter respect, the syntopical reader will undoubtedly fail. All possible sides of an issue cannot be exhaustively enumerated." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:264](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=264))

"If you are reading in order to become a better reader, you cannot read just any book or article. You will not improve as a reader if all you read are books that are well within your capacity. You must tackle books that are beyond you, or, as we have said, books that are over your head. Only books of that sort will make you stretch your mind. And unless you stretch, you will not learn." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:276](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=276))

"the great scientific books are in many ways easier to read than non-scientific ones, because of the care with which scientific authors help you to come to terms, identify the key propositions, and state the main arguments. These helps are absent from poetical works, and so in the long run they are quite likely to be the hardest, the most demanding, books that you can read. Homer, for example, is in many ways harder to read than Newton, despite the fact that you may get more out of Homer the first time through. The reason is that Homer deals with subjects that are harder to write well about." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:277](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=277))

"It is hard to read a bad book, too, for it defies your efforts to analyze it, slipping through your fingers whenever you think you have it pinned down. In fact, in the case of a bad book, there is really nothing to pin down. It is not worth the effort of trying. You receive no reward for your struggle. A good book does reward you for trying to read it. The best books reward you most of all. The reward, of course, is of two kinds. First, there is the improvement in your reading skill that occurs when you successfully tackle a good, difficult work. Second—and this in the long run is much more important—a good book can teach you about the world and about yourself. You learn more than how to read better; you also learn more about life. You become wiser. Not just more knowledgeable—books that provide nothing but information can produce that result. But wiser, in the sense that you are more deeply aware of the great and enduring truths of human life." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:277f](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=277))

"The great majority of the several million books that have been written in the Western tradition alone—more than 99 per cent of them—will not make sufficient demands on you for you to improve your skill in reading. [...] you should not expect to learn anything of importance from them. In fact, you do not have to read them—analytically—at all. Skimming will do. There is a second class of books from which you can learn —both how to read and how to live. Less than one out of every hundred books belongs in this class—probably it is more like one in a thousand, or even one in ten thousand. These are the good books, the ones that were carefully wrought by their authors, the ones that convey to the reader significant insights about subjects of enduring interest to human beings. There are in all probably no more than a few thousand such books." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:278](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=278))

"Of the few thousand such books there is a much smaller number—here the number is probably less than a hundred—that cannot be exhausted by even the very best reading you can manage. How do you recognize this? Again it is rather mysterious, but when you have closed the book after reading it analytically to the best of your ability, and place it back on the shelf, you have a sneaking suspicion that there is more there than you got. We say "suspicion" because that may be all it is at this stage. If you knew what it was that you had missed, your obligation as an analytical reader would take you back to the book immediately to seek it out. In fact, you cannot put your finger on it, but you know it is there. You find that you cannot forget the book, that you keep thinking about it and your reaction to it. Finally, you return to it. And then a very remarkable thing happens. If the book belongs to the second class of books to which we referred before, you find, on returning to it, that there was less there than you remembered. The reason, of course, is that you yourself have grown in the meantime. Your mind is fuller, your understanding greater. The book has not changed, but you have. Such a return is inevitably disappointing. But if the book belongs to the highest class—the very small number of inexhaustible books—you discover on returning that the book seems to have grown with you. You see new things in it—whole sets of new things—that you did not see before." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:279](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=279))

"you should seek out the few books that can have this value for you. They are the books that will teach you the most, both about reading and about life. They are the books to which you will want to return over and over. They are the books that will help you to grow." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:280](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=280))

"a list of books that it would be worth your while to read. We mean the phrase "worth your while" quite seriously. Although not all of the books listed are "great" in any of the commonly accepted meanings of the term, all of them will reward you for the effort you make to read them. All of these books are over most people's heads— sufficiently so, at any rate, to force most readers to stretch their minds to understand and appreciate them. And that, of course, is the kind of book you should seek out if you want to improve your reading skills, and at the same time discover the best that has been thought and said in our literary tradition. Some of the books are great in the special sense of the term that we employed in the last chapter. On returning to them, you will always find something new, often many things. They are endlessly re-readable. Another way to say this is that some of the books—we will not say exactly how many, nor will we try to identify them, since to some extent this is an individual judgment—are over the heads of all readers, no matter how skillful. As we observed in the last chapter, these are the works that everyone should make a special effort to seek out. They are the truly great books; they are the books that anyone should choose to take with him to his own desert island." ([Adler and Van Doren 1972:283](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/T7QINKWB?page=283))