#source 

# Sönke Ahrens, *How to Take Smart Notes: One Simple Technique to Boost Writing, Learning and Thinking: For Students, Academics and Nonfiction Book Writers* (North Charleston, SC: CreateSpace, 2017).

"Every intellectual endeavour starts with a note. Writing plays such a central role in learning, studying and research that it is surprising how little we think about it." ([Ahrens 2017:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=8))

"the everyday note-taking that takes up the biggest chunk of our writing." ([Ahrens 2017:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=8))

"Writing is not what follows research, learning or studying, it is the medium of all this work." ([Ahrens 2017:9](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=9))

"It is the panic in front of the blank screen that brings students and academic writers to turn to the bookshelves full of self-help books on writing, a market publishers meet in droves by focusing on how to deal with this horse-has-already-left-the-barn situation. If we take notes unsystematically, inefficiently or simply wrong, we might not even realise it until we are in the midst of a deadline panic […] the myth of the blank page itself. They struggle because they believe, as they are made to believe, that writing starts with a blank page. If you believe that you have indeed nothing at hand to fill it, you have a very good reason to panic. […] the vast majority of self-help books and study guides can only help you to close the barn door correctly and according to official rules - not just a moment, but many months after the horse has already escaped." ([Ahrens 2017:10](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=10))

"That is why good, productive writing is based on good note-taking. Getting something that is already written into another written piece is incomparably easier than assembling everything in your mind and then trying to retrieve it from there." ([Ahrens 2017:10](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=10))

"there is no measurable correlation between a high IQ and academic success - at least not north of 120. […] What does make a significant difference along the whole intelligence spectrum is something else: how much self-discipline or self-control one uses to approach the tasks at hand" ([Ahrens 2017:10](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=10))

"Nobody needs willpower not to eat a chocolate bar when there isn't one around. And nobody needs willpower to do something they wanted to do anyway. Every task that is interesting, meaningful and well-defined will be done, because there is no conflict between long- and short-term interests. Having a meaningful and well-defined task beats willpower every time. Not having willpower, but not having to use willpower indicates that you set yourself up for success." ([Ahrens 2017:11](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=11))

"Even though planning is often at odds with the very idea of research and learning, it is the mantra of most study guides and selfhelp books on academic writing. How do you plan for insight, which, by definition, cannot be anticipated? It is a huge misunderstanding that the only alternative to planning is aimless messing around. The challenge is to structure one's workflow in a way that insight and new ideas can become the driving forces that push us forward. We do not want to make ourselves dependent on a plan that is threatened by the unexpected, like a new idea, discovery - or insight. Unfortunately, even universities try to turn students into planners." ([Ahrens 2017:13](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=13))

"Planners are also unlikely to continue with their studies after they finish their examinations. They are rather glad it is over. Experts, on the other hand, would not even consider voluntarily giving up what has already proved to be rewarding and fun: learning in a way that generates real insight, is accumulative and sparks new ideas." ([Ahrens 2017:13](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=13))

"Having read more does not automatically mean having more ideas. Especially in the beginning, it means having fewer ideas to work with, because you know that others have already thought of most of them." ([Ahrens 2017:13](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=13))

"Poor students also have no trouble finding a question to write about: they neither lack opinions nor the confidence that they have already thought them through. They also won't have trouble finding confirming evidence in the literature as they usually lack both interest and skill to detect and think through dis-confirming facts and arguments. Good students, on the other hand, constantly raise the bar for themselves as they focus on what they haven't learned and mastered yet. This is why high achievers who have had a taste of the vast amount of knowledge out there are likely to suffer from what psychologists call imposter syndrome, the feeling that you are not really up to the job, even though, of all people, they are" ([Ahrens 2017:14](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=14))

"insight doesn't come easy and that writing is not only for proclaiming opinions, but the main tool to achieve insight worth sharing." ([Ahrens 2017:14](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=14))

"Even the best tool will not improve your productivity considerably if you don't change your daily routines the tool is embedded in, just as the fastest car won't help you much if you don't have proper roads to drive it on. Like every change in behaviour, a change in working habits means going through a phase where you are drawn back to your old ways. The new way of working might feel artificial at first and not necessarily like what you intuitively would do." ([Ahrens 2017:16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=16))

"Routines require simple, repeatable tasks that can become automatic and fit together seamlessly […] . Only when all the related work becomes part of an overarching and interlocked process, where all bottlenecks are removed, can significant change take place (which is why none of the typical "10 mind-blowing tools to improve your productivity" tips you can find all over the internet will ever be of much help). The importance of an overarching workflow is the great insight of David Allen's "Getting Things Done"" ([Ahrens 2017:16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=16))

"The principle of GTD is to collect everything that needs to be taken care of in one place and process it in a standardised way. […] Unfortunately, David Allen's technique cannot simply be transferred to the task of insightful writing. The first reason is that GTD relies on clearly defined objectives, whereas insight cannot be predetermined by definition. We usually start with rather vague ideas that are bound to change until they become clearer in the course of our research […] The other reason is that GTD requires projects to be broken down into smaller, concrete "next steps."" ([Ahrens 2017:16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=16))

"Writing is not a linear process. We constantly have to jump back and forth between different tasks. It wouldn't make any sense to micromanage ourselves on that level. Zooming out to the bigger picture does not really help, either, because then we have next steps like "writing a page."" ([Ahrens 2017:17](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=17))

"Niklas Luhmann […] One day, he put some of these thoughts together into a manuscript and handed it over to Helmut Schelsky […] He suggested that he should become a professor of sociology in the newly founded University of Bielefeld. As attractive and prestigious as this position was, Luhmann wasn't a sociologist. He didn't have the formal qualifications required even to become an assistant for a sociology professor in Germany. He hadn't written a habilitation […] He had never held a doctorate or even obtained a sociology degree. […] He turned to his slip-box and with its help he put together a doctoral thesis and the habilitation thesis in less than a year - while taking classes in sociology. Shortly after, in 1968, he was chosen to become professor of sociology at the University of Bielefeld - a position he would hold for the rest of his life. […] Luhmann, too, was asked what his main research project will be. His answer would become famous. He laconically stated: "My project: theory of society. Duration: 30 years. Costs: zero" (Luhmann, 1997, 11). […] n 30 years, he published 58 books and hundreds of articles […] Even after his death, about half a dozen more books on diverse subjects like religion, education or politics were published in his name - based on almost finished manuscripts lying around in his office. There are more than a few colleagues I know who would give a lot to be as productive in their whole lifetime as Luhmann was after his death. While some career-oriented academics try to squeeze as many publications out of one idea as possible, Luhmann seemed to do the opposite. He constantly generated more ideas than he was able to write down. His texts read as if he is trying to squeeze as much insight and as many ideas as possible into one publication. […] Luhmann rarely had any assistance at all. The last assistant who worked for him swore blind that the only help he was able to give was to spot a few typos in his manuscripts here and there. Luhmann's only real help was a housekeeper who cooked for him and his children during the week, not that extraordinary considering he had to raise three children on his own after his wife died early. […] he seemed to achieve all this with almost no real effort. He not only stressed that he never forced himself to do something he didn't feel like, he even said: "I only do what is easy. I only write when I immediately know how to do it. If I falter for a moment, I put the matter aside and do something else."" ([Ahrens 2017:20](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=20))

"Even hard work can be fun as long as it is aligned with our intrinsic goals and we feel in control. The problems arise when we set up our work in such an inflexible way that we can't adjust it when things change and become arrested in a process that seems to develop a life of its own." ([Ahrens 2017:21](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=21))

"It is in the nature of writing, especially insight-oriented writing, that questions change, the material we work with turns out to be very different from the one imagined or that new ideas emerge, which might change our whole perspective on what we do." ([Ahrens 2017:21](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=21))

"Studies on highly successful people have proven again and again that success is not the result of strong willpower and the ability to overcome resistance, but rather the result of smart working environments that avoid resistance in the first place (cf. Neal et al. 2012; Painter et al. 2002; Hearn et al. 1998). Instead of struggling with adverse dynamics, highly productive people deflect resistance, very much like judo champions. This is not just about having the right mindset, it is also about having the right workflow." ([Ahrens 2017:21](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=21))

"So why is not everybody using a slip-box and working effortlessly towards success? […] 1. Until very recently, when the first results from the research on the file system were published, some crucial misunderstandings prevailed about how Luhmann actually worked, which led to disappointing results for many who tried to emulate the system. The main misunderstanding stems from an isolated focus on the slip-box and a neglect of the actual workflow in which it is embedded. 2. Almost everything that is published about this system was only accessible in German and was almost exclusively discussed within a small group of devoted sociologists who specialised in Luhmann's theory of social systems - hardly the kind of critical mass that would draw much attention. 3. The third and maybe the most important reason is the very fact that it is simple. Intuitively, most people do not expect much from simple ideas. They rather assume that impressive results must have equally impressively complicated means." ([Ahrens 2017:22](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=22))

"Luhmann had two slip-boxes: a bibliographical one, which contained the references and brief notes on the content of the literature, and the main one in which he collected and generated his ideas, mainly in response to what he read. […] while the notes on the literature were brief, he wrote them with great care, not much different from his style in the final manuscript: in full sentences and with explicit references to the literature from which he drew his material. More often than not, a new note would directly follow up on another note and would become part of a longer chain of notes. He then would add references to notes somewhere else in the slip-box, some of them which were located nearby, others in completely different areas and contexts. Some were directly related and read more like comments, others contained not-so-obvious connections. Rarely would a note stay in isolation. […] The trick is that he did not organise his notes by topic, but in the rather abstract way of giving them fixed numbers. The numbers bore no meaning and were only there to identify each note permanently. If a new note was relevant or directly referred to an already existing note, such as a comment, correction or addition, he added it directly behind the previous note. […] Whenever he added a note, he checked his slip-box for other relevant notes to make possible connections between them. Adding a note directly behind another note is only one way of doing this. Another way is by adding a link on this and/or the other note, which could be anywhere in the system. This very much resembles, of course, the way we use hyperlinks on the internet. But, as I will explain later, they are quite different and it would be rather misleading to think of his slip-box as a personal Wikipedia or a database on paper. The similarities are obviously there, but the subtle differences are what makes this system unique. […] While other systems start with a preconceived order of topics, Luhmann developed topics bottom up, then added another note to his slip-box, on which he would sort a topic by sorting the links of the relevant other notes. The last element in his file system was an index, from which he would refer to one or two notes that would serve as a kind of entry point into a line of thought or topic. Notes with a sorted collection of links are, of course, good entry points." ([Ahrens 2017:24](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=24))

"Luhmann's slip-box contains about 90,000 notes […] it only means that he wrote six notes a day from the day he started to work with his slip-box until he died." ([Ahrens 2017:88](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=88))

"1. Make fleeting notes. […] 2. Make literature notes. Whenever you read something, make notes about the content. Write down what you don't want to forget or think you might use in your own thinking or writing. Keep it very short, be extremely selective, and use your own words. Be extra selective with quotes - don't copy them to skip the step of really understanding what they mean. Keep these notes together with the bibliographic details in one place - your reference system. 3. Make permanent notes. Now turn to your slip-box. Go through the notes you made in step one or two (ideally once a day and before you forget what you meant) and think about how they relate to what is relevant for your own research, thinking or interests. […] write as if you were writing for someone else: Use full sentences, disclose your sources, make references and try to be as precise, clear and brief as possible. Throw away the fleeting notes from step one and put the literature notes from step two into your reference system. You can forget about them now. […] 4. Now add your new permanent notes to the slip-box by: a) Filing each one behind one or more related notes […] Look to which note the new one directly relates or, if it does not relate directly to any other note yet, just file it behind the last one. […] b) Adding links to related notes. c) Making sure you will be able to find this note later by either linking to it from your index or by making a link to it on a note that you use as an entry point to a discussion or topic and is itself linked to the index. […] 5. Develop your topics, questions and research projects bottom up from within the system. See what is there, what is missing and what questions arise. Read more to challenge and strengthen your arguments and change and develop your arguments according to the new information you are learning about. […] Even if you don't have anything in your slip-box yet, you never start from scratch - you already have ideas on your mind to be tested, opinions to be challenged and questions to be answered. Do not brainstorm for a topic. Look into the slip-box instead to see where chains of notes have developed and ideas have been built up to clusters. Don't cling to an idea if another, more promising one gains momentum. […] 6. After a while, you will have developed ideas far enough to decide on a topic to write about. Your topic is now based on what you have, not based on an unfounded idea about what the literature you are about to read might provide. Look through the connections and collect all the relevant notes on this topic (most of the relevant notes will already be in partial order), copy them onto your "desktop" [6] and bring them in order. Look for what is missing and what is redundant. […] 7. Turn your notes into a rough draft. Don't simply copy your notes into a manuscript. Translate them into something coherent and embed them into the context of your argument while you build your argument out of the notes at the same time. Detect holes in your argument, fill them or change your argument. 8. Edit and proofread your manuscript." ([Ahrens 2017:29](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=29))

"We cannot help but think about more than one question at a time and the chances are that you will think and write in the future as well. It might not be for academia or a publication, but certainly for your own intellectual growth." ([Ahrens 2017:29](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=29))

"most students collect and embrace over time a variety of learning and note-taking techniques, each promising to make something easier, but combined have the opposite effect. The whole workflow becomes complicated […] To have an undistracted brain to think with and a reliable collection of notes to think in is pretty much all we need. Everything else is just clutter." ([Ahrens 2017:32](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=32))

"We need four tools: · Something to write with and something to write on (pen and paper will do) · A reference management system (the best programs are free) · The slip-box (the best program is free) · An editor (whatever works best for you: very good ones are free) […] I strongly recommend using Daniel Lüdecke's Zettelkasten. It is the only program I know that really implements the principles behind Luhmann's system and is at the same time simple and easy to use." ([Ahrens 2017:33](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=33))

"The slip-box, for example, would most likely be used as an archive for notes - or worse: a graveyard for thoughts" ([Ahrens 2017:35](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=35))

"Studying, done properly, is research, because it is about gaining insight that cannot be anticipated and will be shared within the scientific community under public scrutiny. There is no such thing as private knowledge in academia. […] the professor is not there for the student and the student not for the professor. Both are only there for the truth. And truth is always a public matter. Everything within the university aims at some kind of publication." ([Ahrens 2017:38](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=38))

"If writing is the medium of research and studying nothing else than research, then there is no reason not to work as if nothing else counts than writing. […] Even if you decide never to write a single line of a manuscript, you will improve your reading, thinking and other intellectual skills just by doing everything as if nothing counts other than writing." ([Ahrens 2017:39](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=39))

"it is crucial to distinguish clearly between three types of notes: 1. Fleeting notes […] 2. Permanent notes, which will never be thrown away and contain the necessary information in themselves in a permanently understandable way. […] 3. Project notes, which are only relevant to one particular project. […] One of the major reasons for not getting much writing or publishing done lies in the confusion of these categories." ([Ahrens 2017:43](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=43))

"underlining sentences or writing comments in the margins are also just fleeting notes and do nothing to elaborate on a text. They will very soon become completely useless - unless you do something with them. If you already know that you will not go back to them, don't take these kind of notes in the first place. Take proper notes instead." ([Ahrens 2017:44](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=44))

"A good indication that a note has been left unprocessed too long is when you no longer understand what you meant or it appears banal." ([Ahrens 2017:45](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=45))

"The only permanently stored notes are the literature notes in the reference system and the main notes in the slip-box. The former can be very brief as the context is clearly the text they refer to. The latter need be written with more care and details as they need to be self-explanatory. Luhmann never underlined sentences in the text he read or wrote comments in the margins. All he did was take brief notes about the ideas that caught his attention in a text on a separate piece of paper" ([Ahrens 2017:45](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=45))

"Project-related notes can be: · comments in the manuscript · collections of project-related literature · outlines · snippets of drafts · reminders · to-do lists · and of course the draft itself." ([Ahrens 2017:46](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=46))

"keeps the permanent notes from the project-related notes clearly separated and allows you to experiment and tinker with them as much as you like within the boundaries of each project without interfering with the actual slip-box." ([Ahrens 2017:47](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=47))

"Almost always, the decision on the topic is presented as the necessary first step, after which follows everything else […] In order to develop a good question to write about or find the best angle for an assignment, one must already have put some thought into a topic. To be able to decide on a topic, one must already have read quite a bit and certainly not just about one topic. And the decision to read something and not something else is obviously rooted in prior understanding, and that didn't come out of thin air, either. Every intellectual endeavour starts from an already existing preconception, which then can be transformed during further inquires and can serve as a starting point for following endeavours. Basically, that is what Hans-Georg Gadamer called the hermeneutic circle" ([Ahrens 2017:48](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=48))

"As proper note-taking is rarely taught or discussed, it is no wonder that almost every guide on writing recommends to start with brainstorming. If you haven't written along the way, the brain is indeed the only place to turn to. On its own, it is not such a great choice: it is neither objective nor reliable […] The things you are supposed to find in your head by brainstorming usually don't have their origins in there. Rather, they come from the outside: through reading, having discussions and listening to others, through all the things that could have been accompanied and often even would have been improved by writing. The advice to think about what to write about before you write comes both too early and too late. Too late, as you already have passed up the chance to build up written resources when you face the white sheet of paper or the blank screen, but also too early, if you try to postpone every serious content-related work until you have made a decision on the topic." ([Ahrens 2017:50](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=50))

"Any attempts to trick ourselves into work with external rewards (like doing something nice after finishing a chapter) are only short-term solutions with no prospect of establishing a positive feedback loop. These are very fragile motivational constructions. Only if the work itself becomes rewarding can the dynamic of motivation and reward become self-sustainable and propel the whole process forward" ([Ahrens 2017:52](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=52))

"The slip-box is not a collection of notes. Working with it is less about retrieving specific notes and more about being pointed to relevant facts and generating insight by letting ideas mingle. Its usability grows with its size, not just linearly but exponentially. When we turn to the slip-box, its inner connectedness will not just provide us with isolated facts, but with lines of developed thoughts. Moreover, because of its inner complexity, a search thought the slip-box will confront us with related notes we did not look for." ([Ahrens 2017:55](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=55))

"Multitasking is not what we think it is. It is not focusing attention on more than one thing at a time. Nobody can do that. When we think we multitask, what we really do is shift our attention quickly between two (or more) things. And every shift is a drain on our ability to shift and delays the moment we manage to get focused again. Trying to multitask fatigues us and decreases our ability to deal with more than one task." ([Ahrens 2017:59](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=59))

"what psychologists call the mere-exposure effect: doing something many times makes us believe we have become good at it - completely independent of our actual performance (Bornstein 1989). We unfortunately tend to confuse familiarity with skill." ([Ahrens 2017:59](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=59))

"Oshin Vartanian compared and analysed the daily workflows of Nobel Prize winners and other eminent scientists and concluded that it is not a relentless focus, but flexible focus that distinguishes them. "Specifically, the problem-solving behavior of eminent scientists can alternate between extraordinary levels of focus on specific concepts and playful exploration of ideas. This suggests that successful problem solving may be a function of flexible strategy application in relation to task demands." (Vartanian 2009, 57)" ([Ahrens 2017:63](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=63))

"The moment we stop making plans is the moment we start to learn." ([Ahrens 2017:64](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=64))

"To be able to become an expert, we need the freedom to make our own decisions and all the necessary mistakes that help us learn. Like bicycling, it can only be learned by doing it." ([Ahrens 2017:64](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=64))

"the very thing academia and writing is all about: gaining insight and making it public." ([Ahrens 2017:64](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=64))

"In an experiment, beginner and expert paramedics and their teachers were shown scenes of CPR performed by either experienced paramedics or those who had just finished their training (Flyvbjerg 2001). [19] As you might expect, the experienced paramedics were able to spot their kind correctly in almost all cases (~90%), while the beginners were more or less just guessing (~50%). So far, so good. But when the teachers watched the videos, they systematically mistook the beginners for experts and the experts for beginners. They were wrong in most of the cases (and only right in about a third of all the cases). Hubert and Stuart Dreyfus, researchers on expertise, have a simple explanation: Teachers tend to mistake the ability to follow (their) rules with the ability to make the right choices in real situations. […] Because trainees lack the experience to judge a situation correctly and confidently, they need to stick to the rules they were taught, much to the delight of their teachers." ([Ahrens 2017:65](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=65))

"Every step is accompanied by questions like: How does this fact fit into my idea of ...? How can this phenomenon be explained by that theory? Are these two ideas contradictory or do they complement each other? Isn't this argument similar to that one? Haven't I heard this before? And above all: What does x mean for y?" ([Ahrens 2017:67](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=67))

"When we extract ideas from the specific context of a text, we deal with ideas that serve a specific purpose in a particular context, support a specific argument, are part of a theory that isn't ours or written in a language we wouldn't use. This is why we have to translate them into our own language to prepare them to be embedded into new contexts of our own thinking, the different context(s) within the slip-box. Translating means to give the truest possible account of the original work, using different words - it does not mean the freedom to make something fit. As well, the mere copying of quotes almost always changes their meaning by stripping them out of context, even though the words aren't changed. This is a common beginner mistake, which can only lead to a patchwork of ideas, but never a coherent thought." ([Ahrens 2017:73](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=73))

"Literature notes are short and meant to help with writing slip-box notes. Everything else either helps to get to this point or is a distraction." ([Ahrens 2017:74](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=74))

"if you are writing by hand, you are forced to think about what you hear (or read) - otherwise you wouldn't be able to grasp the underlying principle, the idea, the structure of an argument. Handwriting makes pure copying impossible, but instead facilitates the translation of what is said (or written) into one's own words. The students who typed into their laptops were much quicker, which enabled them to copy the lecture more closely but circumvented actual understanding. They focused on completeness. Verbatim notes can be taken with almost no thinking, as if the words are taking a short cut from the ear to the hand, bypassing the brain." ([Ahrens 2017:75](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=75))

"The classic role model would be Charles Darwin. He forced himself to write down (and therefore elaborate on) the arguments that were the most critical of his theories. "I had [...] during many years followed a golden rule, namely, that whenever a published fact, a new observation or thought came across me, which was opposed to my general results, to make a memorandum of it without fail and at once; for I had found by experience that such facts and thoughts were far more apt to escape from the memory than favorable ones. Owing to this habit, very few objections were raised against my views, which I had not at least noticed and attempted to answer." (Darwin 1958, 123)" ([Ahrens 2017:77](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=77))

"The slip-box forces us to be selective in reading and note-taking, but the only criterion is the question of whether something adds to a discussion in the slip-box. The only thing that matters is that it connects or is open to connections. Everything can contribute to the development of thoughts within the slip-box: an addition as well as a contradiction, the questioning of a seemingly obvious idea as well as the differentiation of an argument. What we are looking for are facts and information that can add something and therefore enrich the slip-box. One of the most important habitual changes when starting to work with the slip-box is moving the attention from the individual project with our preconceived ideas towards the open connections within the slip-box." ([Ahrens 2017:78](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=78))

"Collecting only one-sided ideas wouldn't be very enriching. Yes, we have to be selective, but not in terms of pros and cons, but in terms of relevant or irrelevant. And as soon we focus on the content of the slip-box, dis-confirming data becomes suddenly very attractive, because it opens up more possible connections and discussions within the slip-box, while mere confirming data does not. It becomes easier to seek out dis-confirming data with practice and can become quite addictive. The experience of how one piece of information can change the whole perspective on a certain problem is exciting. And the more diverse the content of the slip-box is, the further it can bring our thinking forward" ([Ahrens 2017:78](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=78))

"Extracting the gist of a text or an idea and giving an account in writing is for academics what daily practice on the piano is for pianists" ([Ahrens 2017:79](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=79))

"Richard Feynman once said that he could only determine whether he understood something if he could give an introductory lecture on it. Reading with a pen in your hand is the small-scale equivalent of a lecture. Permanent notes, too, are directed towards an audience ignorant of the thoughts behind the text and unaware of the original context, only equipped with a general knowledge of the field. The only difference is that the audience here consists of our future selves, which will very soon have reached the same state of ignorance as someone who never had access to what we have written about." ([Ahrens 2017:81](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=81))

"In oral presentations, we easily get away with unfounded claims. We can distract from argumentative gaps with confident gestures or drop a casual "you know what I mean" irrespective of whether we know what we meant. In writing, these manoeuvres are a little too obvious. […] The most important advantage of writing is that it helps us to confront ourselves when we do not understand something as well as we would like to believe." ([Ahrens 2017:81](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=81))

"Reading, especially rereading, can easily fool us into believing we understand a text. Rereading is especially dangerous because of the mereexposure effect: The moment we become familiar with something, we start believing we also understand it. On top of that, we also tend to like it more" ([Ahrens 2017:81](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=81))

"The majority of students chooses every day not to test themselves in any way. Instead, they apply the very method research has shown again (Karpicke, Butler, and Roediger 2009) and again (Brown 2014, ch. 1) to be almost completely useless: rereading and underlining sentences for later rereading. And most of them choose that method, even if they are taught that they don't work." ([Ahrens 2017:82](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=82))

"Pure re-viewing just doesn't make any sense, neither for understanding nor for learning. It is debatable if we even can call it learning. It is not surprising, therefore, that the best-researched and most successful learning method is elaboration. It is very similar to what we do when we take smart notes and combine them with others, which is the opposite of mere reviewing" ([Ahrens 2017:84](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=84))

"Even doctoral students sometimes just collect de-contextualised quotes from a text - probably the worst possible approach to research imaginable. This makes it almost impossible to understand the actual meaning of information […] what Luhmann recommends: Writing brief accounts on the main ideas of a text instead of collecting quotes." ([Ahrens 2017:86](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=86))

"half of all doctoral theses will stay unfinished forever" ([Ahrens 2017:87](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=87))

"It does make sense to break down the work into manageable and measurable steps, but pages per day don't work that well as a unit when you also have to read, do research and think." ([Ahrens 2017:87](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=87))

"Any thought of a certain complexity requires writing. Coherent arguments require the language to be fixed, and only if something is written down is it fixed enough to be discussed independently from the author. The brain alone is too eager to make us feel good - even if it is by politely ignoring inconsistencies in our thinking. Only in the written form can an argument be looked at with a certain distance - literally. We need this distance to think about an argument - otherwise the argument itself would occupy the very mental resources we need for scrutinizing it." ([Ahrens 2017:89](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=89))

"We are very dependent on a subconscious mechanism that reliably inhibits almost every memory every moment except the very, very few that are truly helpful in a situation." ([Ahrens 2017:94](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=94))

"If we look at the current state of education, especially the learning strategies most students employ, we see that the vast majority of all learning still aims to improve "storage strength," even though it cannot be improved. It is still mostly about remembering isolated facts and not so much about building connections. This is what learning psychologists have rightfully given the derogative term "cramming:" the attempt to reinforce and solidify information in the brain by repetition." ([Ahrens 2017:95](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=95))

"He couldn't stand textbooks full of pseudo-explanations (Feynman 1985) and teachers who tried to make learning easier for students by using artificial "real-life" examples instead of using their actual prior understanding as a connection point (Feynman 1963)." ([Ahrens 2017:98](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=98))

"This is the best antidote to the impeding way most information is given to us in our learning institutions. Most often, it comes in modular form, sorted by topic, separated by disciplines and generally isolated from other information. The slip-box is forcing us to do the exact opposite: To elaborate, to understand, to connect and therefore to learn seriously." ([Ahrens 2017:99](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=99))

"Ideally, new notes are written with explicit reference to already existing notes. Obviously, this is not always possible, especially in the beginning when the slip-box is still in its infancy, but it will very soon become the first option most of the time. Then you can put the new note "behind" an existing, related note straight away. […] one note can become the follow-up note to different notes at the same time. These note sequences are the backbone of text development. They combine the advantages of an abstract with a topic-related order. A pure topic-related order would have to be organised top down and requires a hierarchical order up front. A pure abstract order would not allow idea clusters and topics to be built bottom up. The individual notes would stay mostly independent and isolated with only one-dimensional references - pretty much like a oneperson Wikipedia stripped of the knowledge and fact-checking abilities of the community. But a loose order of sequences allows freedom to change course when necessary and provides enough structure to build up complexity." ([Ahrens 2017:101](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=101))

"Because the slip-box is not intended to be an encyclopaedia, but a tool to think with, we don't need to worry about completeness. We don't need to write anything down just to bridge a gap in a note sequence. We only write if it helps us with our own thinking." ([Ahrens 2017:101](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=101))

"We extract information from different linear sources and mix it all up and shake it until new patterns emerge. Then, we form these patterns into new linear texts." ([Ahrens 2017:102](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=102))

"Luhmann would add the number of one or two (rarely more) notes next to a keyword in the index" ([Ahrens 2017:102](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=102))

"Because it should not be used as an archive, where we just take out what we put in, but as a system to think with, the references between the notes are much more important than the references from the index to a single note. […] liberating our brains from the task of organizing the notes is the main reason we use the slip-box in the first place." ([Ahrens 2017:102](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=102))

"A few wisely chosen notes are sufficient for each entry point. The quicker we get from the index to the concrete notes, the quicker we move our attention from mentally preconceived ideas towards the fact-rich level of interconnected content, where we can conduct a fact-based dialogue with the slip-box." ([Ahrens 2017:103](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=103))

"The consideration of how to structure a topic, therefore, belongs on notes as well - and not on a meta-hierarchical level. We can provide ourselves with a (temporarily valid) overview over a topic or subtopic just by making another note." ([Ahrens 2017:103](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=103))

"The way people choose their keywords shows clearly if they think like an archivist or a writer. Do they wonder where to store a note or how to retrieve it? The archivist asks: Which keyword is the most fitting? A writer asks: In which circumstances will I want to stumble upon this note, even if I forget about it? It is a crucial difference. […] Keywords should always be assigned with an eye towards the topics you are working on or interested in, never by looking at the note in isolation. This is also why this process cannot be automated or delegated to a machine or program - it requires thinking. The Zettelkasten does make suggestions based on existing keywords and scans for keywords in the text you wrote. But it makes sense to see these suggestions more as a warning sign than an invitation to use them: these are the most obvious ideas and probably not the best ones. Good keywords are usually not already mentioned as words in the note. […] Assigning keywords is much more than just a bureaucratic act. It is a crucial part of the thinking process, which often leads to a deeper elaboration of the note itself and the connection to other notes." ([Ahrens 2017:105](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=105))

"In the digital version of the Zettelkasten, all we need to do is to click on "Links" and add the number of the note we want to refer to. It then automatically adds a backlink to the note we refer from. Even though the Zettelkasten makes suggestions here, too, for example based on joint literature references, making good cross-references is a matter of serious thinking and a crucial part of the development of thoughts." ([Ahrens 2017:105](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=105))

"It is no coincidence that one of the main features of Luhmann's theory of social systems is its discovery of structural patterns that could be found in very different parts of society. For example, he was able to show how vastly different things like money, power, love, truth and justice can be seen as social inventions that solve structurally similar problems (they all can be seen as media that make the acceptance of certain communication offers more likely" ([Ahrens 2017:107](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=107))

"If you use the slip-box for a while, you will inevitably make a sobering discovery: The great new idea you are about to add to the slip-box turns out to be already in there. Even worse, chances are this idea wasn't even yours, but someone else's." ([Ahrens 2017:107](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=107))

"We learn something not only when we connect it to prior knowledge and try to understand its broader implications (elaboration), but also when we try to retrieve it at different times (spacing) in different contexts (variation), ideally with the help of chance (contextual interference) and with a deliberate effort (retrieval)." ([Ahrens 2017:112](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=112))

"Comparing, differentiating and connecting notes are the basis of good academic writing, but playing and tinkering with ideas is what leads to insight and exceptional texts. To be able to play with ideas, we first have to liberate them from their original context by means of abstraction and re-specification." ([Ahrens 2017:114](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=114))

"Abstraction does not have a good reputation at the moment. It is the tangible, the concrete that is cheered for. Abstraction should indeed not be the final goal of thinking, but it is a necessary in-between step to make heterogeneous ideas compatible. […] Only by abstraction and re-specification can we apply ideas in the singular and always different situations in reality […] Studies on creativity with engineers show that the ability to find not only creative, but functional and working solutions for technical problems is equal to the ability to make abstractions. The better an engineer is at abstracting from a specific problem, the better and more pragmatic his solutions will be - even for the very problem he abstracted from (Gassmann and Zeschky, 2008, 103). Abstraction is also the key to analyse and compare concepts, to make analogies and to combine ideas; this is especially true when it comes to interdisciplinary work (Goldstone and Wilensky 2008)." ([Ahrens 2017:115](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=115))

"Another seemingly banal tip relates to a distinguishing feature of extraordinary thinkers: Taking simple ideas seriously. […] Sometimes the breakthrough in a scientific process is the discovery of a simple principle behind a seemingly very complicated process." ([Ahrens 2017:119](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=119))

"restriction to one idea per note is also the precondition to recombine them freely later. Luhmann choose notes in the format A6" ([Ahrens 2017:120](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=120))

"These standardizations make it possible that the technical side of note-taking can become automatic. […] Thinking and creativity can flourish under restricted conditions and there are plenty of studies to back that claim (cf. Stokes 2001; Rheinberger 1997). The scientific revolution started with the standardization and controlling of experiments, which made them comparable and repeatable […] The biggest threat to creativity and scientific progress is therefore the opposite: a lack of structure and restrictions. Without structure, we cannot differentiate, compare or experiment with ideas. Without restrictions, we would never be forced to make the decision on what is worth pursuing and what is not. Indifference is the worst environment for insight. And the slipbox is, above all, a tool for enforcing distinctions, decisions and making differences visible. One thing is for sure: the common idea that we should liberate ourselves from any restrictions and "open ourselves up" to be more creative is very misleading indeed" ([Ahrens 2017:121](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=121))

"the brain prioritises ideas that are easily available in the moment. This, obviously, does not equal relevant. The brain more easily remembers information that it encountered recently, which has emotions attached to it and is lively, concrete or specific. Ideally, it rhymes as well […] Everything that is rather abstract, vague, emotionally neutral or does not even sound good is far down on its list of priorities - not exactly the best criteria for an intellectual endeavour. It makes things worse that we tend to like our first ideas the best and are very reluctant to let go of them, irrespective of their actual relevance […] More people in a brainstorming group usually come up with less good ideas and restrict themselves inadvertently to a narrower range of topics" ([Ahrens 2017:123](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=123))

"Being intimately familiar with something enables us to be playful with it, to modify it, to spot new and different ideas without running the risk of merely repeating old ideas believing they are new. This is why it feels in the beginning that familiarity makes it harder to come up with new ideas. We just didn't know that most of the ideas we had are actually not that innovative. But while the belief in our own ingenuity decreases with expertise, we become more able to actually make a genuine new contribution. Jacob Warren Getzels and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi showed that this is also true in art: New, groundbreaking work is rarely created on a whim by some accidental artist who believes himself to be amazingly innovative. On the contrary: The more time an artist devotes to learning about an aesthetic "problem," the more unexpected and creative his solution will be regarded" ([Ahrens 2017:125](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=125))

"the long-term, cross-topic organization of notes, which is guided only by one's own understanding and interest, is very much at odds with the modular, compartmentalised and top-down approach in which the curricula of universities and colleges are organised. Teaching is still set up for review, and students are not really encouraged to independently build a network of connections between heterogeneous information - despite the radical change in our understanding on how our memory and learning works." ([Ahrens 2017:135](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=135))

"Some seemingly innovative ideas, like the "learner-centred" approach, often do more harm than good, as they still neglect the need for an external scaffolding to think in. It is not the learner who should be the focus of attention." ([Ahrens 2017:135](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=135))

"Learning, thinking and writing should not be about accumulating knowledge, but about becoming a different person with a different way of thinking. This is done by questioning one's own thinking routines in the light of new experiences and facts." ([Ahrens 2017:136](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=136))