#source 

# Magnus Eriksson, “Living with a Zettelkasten,” Blay, June 21, 2015, https://omxi.se/2015-06-21-living-with-a-zettelkasten.html.

"preferably in a software-agnostic way, such as with plain text and customizable programming text editors." ([Eriksson 2015:1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=1))

"to take the basis of an index card Zettelkasten and make it both humanand machine-readable. The philosophy is related to Markdown with its simple markup and emphasis on being readable by both humans and machines." ([Eriksson 2015:1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=1))

"books are medieval and pre-modern. Books — including note books — are based on text that stick together, page after page. This text can't be moved, processed, separated and concatenated. They are meant to be read from beginning to end and a page is not autonomous from its neighbors." ([Eriksson 2015:1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=1))

"When using a Zettelkasten, you have to read books differently. Instead of reading a book from cover to cover, you iterate over the book and each time drills down to the parts of the book that you will eventually read with a purpose - the purpose of careful reading while taking notes and integrating these into your Zettelkasten. The four stages of reading a book for your Zettelkasten are: 1. Get a feel for the book by looking at the headlines. 2. Decide what you want to learn from the book. 3. Skim the paragraphs to find out the interesting ones. 4. Take note of interesting passages." ([Eriksson 2015:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=2))

"Be wary of clustering notes based on the texts structure. Cluster in a way that makes sense to your intention and your Zettelkasten." ([Eriksson 2015:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=2))

"In order for a reading note to be turned into a Zettel it must un-stick from the text. It must be able to stand on its own with only a reference to the source text. You need to untangle a note from the web of text it was immersed in. This often involves rephrasing of the arguments in the source text and turning a part of this argument into its own concept. Rephrasing key arguments is a great way to integrate the knowledge and to have notes that you can rely on so you don't have to go back to the source text again. Using examples is also a way of getting the text to work for you creatively. A typical Zettel can contain the following elements: 1. A compact key statement. 2. An elaboration of the concept. 3. An example you came up with." ([Eriksson 2015:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=2))

"If a Zettel has too many dependencies to stand on its own, write the Zettel and create links to the necessary prerequisite notes." ([Eriksson 2015:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=2))

"a dependency of both the Zettel and the dependency can stand on their own and be used in different note sequences. In computer science, this is called "Separation of concerns"" ([Eriksson 2015:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=3))

"Such separations can be an empirical fact, and argument, and its conclusion. A connection can be made by linking between two Zettelns, but it can be made stronger by merging Zettels or by writing a third Zettel that explains the connections between the two Zettels. Connection Zettels can also explain the connection between other connection Zettelns and if this process is expanded you soon end up at the level of the abstract, or outline." ([Eriksson 2015:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=3))

"Only you can make the connections between two Zetteln. As your personal knowledge system, you are the one deciding how your Zettelkasten will grow. You make these connections sensible to other people by writing texts about them." ([Eriksson 2015:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=3))

"You should aim at making each writing session go through some variation of the knowledge cycle: research, read, note, write. Each knowledge cycle can be fractally embedded in larger knowledge cycles" ([Eriksson 2015:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=3))

"The short knowledge cycle works well with pomodoro breaks where each break marks a jump to the next phase of the cycle." ([Eriksson 2015:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=3))

"Building blocks of a Zettelkasten 1. The Inbox; The gateway to your zettelkasten 2. The Archive; The core of your Zettelkasten 3. The Reference Database; The representation of the world outside your Zettelkasten These are parts of a process, not different tools. Your own finished writing is part of the reference database." ([Eriksson 2015:4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=4))

"A Zettelkasten becomes uninteresting when 1) It does not grow, 2) it grows only with isolated notes, 3) it never produces an output. A Zettel does not want to live alone in the Zettelkasten, it wants to find connections, but it also wants to be released from the archive and become part of a directional work. The operations of the Zettelkasten also include recursive heuristic operations on the Zettelns in the archive where they are linked, commented on or expanded upon. These operations make gaps in the information in the Zettelkasten apparent which also directs the input function of the Zettelkasten, leading to the active search of pieces of information. References, highlights, pinboard, RSS; all these are outside of the Zettelkasten system but could be considered a part of the outside with reduced complexity for the Zettelkasten compared to the internet as a whole or for that matter the world outside of it." ([Eriksson 2015:4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=4))

"You need to educate your Zettelkasten because on day it will be your teacher. Emerging links, sequences, categories and keywords will integrate with your brain as it grows hardened together with your Zettelkasten." ([Eriksson 2015:5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=5))

"The benefits with Folgezetteln is that it creates a clear sequence of notes that is visually apparent on listing or browsing notes. The downside is that it fixes links between notes in a hierarchical and linear manner that is the product of decisions in one particular time-space. It makes it hard to change" ([Eriksson 2015:5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=5))

"these links or to create note-sequences on the fly based on the current topic of research. Folgezetteln is a hierarchical system based on trees and branches. Two note sequences can't share the same note. Some alternatives to Folgezetteln are outlines and tags. An outline is an index of Zetteln that create a sequence. Tags reveal indexicality in a search." ([Eriksson 2015:6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=6))

"A remaining controversy regards the historicity of Folgezetteln. Do they have a place in a digital Zettelkasten, or were they simply a by-product of the material constraints of index cards? A simple addition to a note that remains "sticky" is meaningless in a digital Zettelkasten, but serves a purpose in an index card based system. For a note to achieve the status of a Zettel it must be independent and be able to be a part of several sequences or relate to several notes. Likewise, a Zettel can become too sticky if other Zettelns would like to refer to a part of the Zettel. In this case, one can consider splitting the Zettel into two independent arguments with a link between them. This necessity of linking to a part of a Zettel could be used as the indicator that a Zettel has become too sticky instead of making Zettelns that are too loose by prematurely creating new ones. Another indicator that it is time to split a Zettel is that it keeps showing up in search results although you were only looking for a specific part of it." ([Eriksson 2015:6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=6))

"A sequence of Folgezetteln links without explanation. They simple "belong together". This can provide a posivitve freedom of association but can also become a constraint, just like placing files in folders. A direct link on the other hand can also contain an explanation of how come the association arose in the first place. It is up to the author to choose what is a sufficient reason for a link. The primary argument for maintaining sequences of Folgezetteln so far seem to be that they provide a visual overview of links at the level of file browsing, search and listing of notes. This is a argument that is based upon lack of tools and methods to otherwise accomplish the same overview and is therefor a compromise of the Zettelkasten system." ([Eriksson 2015:6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=6))

"The reason for this limitation is that the file system as a framework for data handling is itself a metaphor based on a paper based file handling system in which Folgezetteln makes sense. The idea that "in the end", a Zettelkasten consist of a folder where each Zettel is a file in a file system is a limiting metaphor compared to a dynamic database that can arbitrarily construct relations between data. The follow up question is if the paper based metaphor is a proper fit with a human cognitive processing system - that is, the brain - and should therefor be kept to provide easy organisation, or is it is a historical residue that can - and should - be replaced by a dynamic relational database." ([Eriksson 2015:6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=6))

"should be replaced by a dynamic listing of indexical relations in the Zettelkasten. One way of doing that while still keeping with a" ([Eriksson 2015:6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=6))

"plain text file based system is to use scripts that render outline files. These outline files could follow links in the Zettelkasten - provided that links are unidirectional (which makes sense) - and render indexes of note sequences. This could both be rendered as notes in themselves, or it could be dynamically rendered as STDOUT. A combination of both is preferable. The reason that unidirectional links make sense is that only one of the notes (the linking note) is written with the knowledge of the other note (the linked note). Instead of the linked note also containing a traceback to the linking note, a dynamic index should be possible to render as a list of several note sequences where this note is a part." ([Eriksson 2015:7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=7))

"In a network we can't visualize a sequence of more than one jump. If the relations are to come in the form of a database, that is as a network, then the sequencing need to happen with manually constructed outlines indexing sequences of jumps throughout the network. This is similar to how a wiki relies of indexes of links between files or parts of files. In a file-system based organisation on the other hand, a note can't be part of several histories unless there is a merge of these histories into one future." ([Eriksson 2015:7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=7))

"there needs to be a decision of whether the Zettelkasten functions like a version controlled code repository, such as git branching, or as a code library of reusable code. The latter is a database, while the former is a tree sequence (excluding concepts such as forking). The great fear of moving to direct links is of course that the Zettelkasten turns into the dreaded Wiki." ([Eriksson 2015:7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=7))

"The Collectors Fallacy" ([Eriksson 2015:7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=7))

"Collecting does not transform us and always postpones learning and transformation to the future. Collecting creates debt that we promise to pay back in some future that never arrives. The collection allow us to imagine ourselves in the near future as a person who has read and understood the collected material." ([Eriksson 2015:7](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=7))

"Reading can also be subject to the collectors fallacy. Then we read unsystematically - without taking notes or integrating what we understood into our knowledge system - then reading is merely a short-term feeling of understanding." ([Eriksson 2015:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=8))

"In genereal, you should never read anything without having an aim of it being integrated into your Zettelkasten. Anything else is a waste of time in the long run." ([Eriksson 2015:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=8))

"the worst example of a note being the highlight" ([Eriksson 2015:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=8))

"In the end, the collectors fallacy relies on a totalizing vision of knowledge that thinks one can collect everything on a topic, read everything on a topic and turn that complete knowledge into a draft. It does not consider the situatedness of a research project and that new knowledge is created when pieces of knowledge encounter each other, not when gaps in a totalizing knowledge system are filled by adding information. The collector's fallacy should be channeled, not squashed. Cherish your inner "archive fever" — it is your engine — but channel it to productivity. Use strategic procrastination." ([Eriksson 2015:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=8))

"The more I have developed my Zettelkasten, the more I have come to rely on opportunistic presentation of information instead of hierarchical, logical structure. The Zettelns have some structure and many connections, but it is really the scripts that bring it alive." ([Eriksson 2015:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=8))

"An outline in the context of a Zettelkasten system is an index of a sequence of Zettelns that create a story, or a narrative, or an argument." ([Eriksson 2015:9](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=9))

"Optimally, outlines should both be able to be created manually by the author - and then be considered in some form or another as an abstract - or rendered dynamically by a search function and should then be considered to be indexes of links between Zettelns. A way to test the strength of an outline or an abstract is to fill it with notes. Is every argument supported by well-written Zettelns? IS new research needed? Can you build a strong foundation for an argument by making connections between more notes?" ([Eriksson 2015:9](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=9))

"The process of writing your first draft generally consists of making an outline from the overview of the knowledge of the field and populating each item in the outline with notes from your archive." ([Eriksson 2015:9](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/QNCCMQSJ?page=9))