# Victor W. Hwang and Greg Horowitt, *The Rainforest: The Secret to Building the Next Silicon Valley*, 1.02 edition (Los Altos Hills, Calif: Regenwald, 2012).

"only a few regions like Silicon Valley have become enduring innovation ecosystems" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:15)

"Our ideas might be considered a subset of the field of complexity economics, the study of complex economic systems. However, we differ generally from complexity economists in our emphasis on practical observation and application." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:17)

"To explain the differences between highly productive systems like Silicon Valley and most other places in the world, what is most important are not the ingredients of economic production, but the recipe―how the ingredients are combined together. Human systems become more productive the faster that the key ingredients of innovation―talent, ideas, and capital―are allowed to flow throughout the system." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:17)

"In the real world, however, human nature gets in the way. Our brains are instinctively tribal. We are designed to trust people closer to us and to distrust those further from us. Ironically, the greatest economic value is created in transactions between people who are the most different from one another. Human nature, with its innate prejudices, creates enormous transaction costs in society. Thus, what we think of as free markets are actually not that free. They are still constrained by invisible transaction costs caused by social barriers based on geographical distance, lack of trust, differences in language and culture, and inefficient social networks. Rainforests like Silicon Valley are able to overcome these transaction costs through a distinct set of social behaviors. These social behaviors correspond to the mechanisms that are necessary to maximize the free flow of talent, ideas, and capital in a human network. These behaviors, however, require that individuals rise above short-term selfishness and focus on long-term mutual gain. The Rainforest theory therefore contradicts the notion that economic productivity is highest when the rational pursuit of selfish motives is greatest. The key factors driving the strength of human innovation ecosystems are: diversity of talents, trust across social barriers, motivations that rise above short-term rationality, and social norms that promote rapid, "promiscuous" collaboration and experimentation among individuals. This is the culture of the Rainforest." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:18)

"Talent, ideas, and capital are the nutrients moving through this biological system. Measuring the velocity of such nutrients can provide us the tools with which to measure the health of an innovation ecosystem by observing dynamic activity over time, rather than static points in time." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:19)

"It is not creative destruction alone that is sufficient. Far more important is creative reassembly, the ability of humans to combine and recombine into ever-increasing patterns of efficiency and productivity." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:19)

"Having all the right ingredients―such as those present in Chicago―will not necessarily result in successful innovation. You need to prepare those raw ingredients, combining them in just the right way, as they were in San Diego." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:30)

"what we have learned through years of working with entrepreneurs around the world is that when it comes to innovation, the unbridled free market is not as productive as conventional wisdom says it should be. We found that a recipe employing a laissez-faire approach―in short, to simply let the ingredients do their thing―is really no recipe at all. The marketplace has not worked its magic in most parts of the U.S. and the world, even where entrepreneurs are unhindered by government interference. The vast majority of the planet's venture capital and its fastest-growing startup companies are concentrated in just a few unique places." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:31)

"Where innovation is concerned, markets are largely inefficient." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:32)

"The model of business emerging from the Industrial Revolution can be described in many ways as an agricultural model. Such a model is focused on controlling complex systems, using the latest technical tools to finely calibrate accuracy, precision, and productivity. The greater the degree of control, the better the output. Companies are rewarded for efficiency in production" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:34)

"By contrast, when we think about innovation systems, the greatest productivity comes from environments that resemble not cropland but rainforests. In nature, a rainforest functions not because of the mere presence of raw carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. It thrives because of the way in which these elements mix together to create new and unexpected flora and fauna. A rainforest is an environment with special characteristics―the air, the nutrients in the soil, the temperature, for example―that encourage the creation of new species of animals and plants that are greater than the sum of their elements. A rainforest takes lifeless inorganic matter and creates systems of thriving organic matter." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:35)

"In the agricultural model, one usually pulls out a weed that does not belong. […] In the Rainforest, however, what looks like a weed might be the most valuable new plant in the entire ecosystem. Think of companies such as Google and Facebook today―they were indistinguishable from weeds only a few years ago. The oddballs are the gamechangers in innovation systems. In Rainforests, we want to nurture the weeds to grow." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:35)

"California system, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and many leading academic institutions in the American heartland―were initially founded with a focus on agricultural studies. The goal was to help farmers learn how to apply technologies to boost their output. The Morrill Land-Grants Acts of 1862 and 1890 used proceeds from the sale of federal land to provide every U.S. state with funds to establish agricultural colleges. Altogether, 106 colleges were launched with the goal of increasing America's agricultural capacity. To disseminate that knowledge even further, the cooperative extension program―funded by the Smith-Lever Act of 1914―helped universities hire agents to teach those ideas to still more farmers and to take those technologies directly to the farms. It was the original model for technology transfer―innovation as a controlled production and distribution process from university to user." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:37)

"In the past, the key rate-limiter was a government's ability to teach more students or hire more agents to visit more farms and disseminate more knowledge. Today, the key rate-limiter is how quickly people and resources can be assembled together to solve problems in realtime. In short, the key question has changed from "How efficiently can we produce more crops?" to "How quickly can we nurture the growth of good weeds?"" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:37)

"Individual people are the atoms swimming in the complex biological system of human society. Innovation can be sparked to life by a particular combination of people who happen to have ideas, talent, and capital in the prebiotic soup of humanity. But those elements must be mixed in just the right way for them to find and connect with one another. When viewed from high above, humans are just particles moving around and bumping into each other. Rainforests―whether in Silicon Valley or elsewhere―are environments that encourage disconnected people to self-organize into greater forms of biological life." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:39)

""I can calculate the movement of the stars, but not the madness of men." - Sir Isaac Newton, referring to his losing investment in the South Sea Bubble" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:45)

"ProFusion failed because it was like a lone flower in a desert. There was no Rainforest around it. It was like an ingredient in a gourmet meal, without the rest of the gourmet meal. A great idea―the ProFusion meta-search technology―had some great technical talent behind it: the Gauches. But they did not have access to everything else needed to nurture a startup business―people who could really help them navigate the growth process, capture the loyalty of new users, develop business deals that could grow their user base, forge advertising partnerships to convert their users into revenues, hire executives who understood effective consumer marketing, and raise capital to enable them to do all these things. ProFusion was based in Lawrence, Kansas, almost a full day's journey to any of the major regional clusters for executive talent, entrepreneurial capital, and strategic partners that understood how to build freshly minted startups into world-changing companies. Susan recalls, "Working from Kansas, we were simply not close to the industry and had a hard time being taken seriously as a company. We weren't landing those contracts. We couldn't convince large companies or investors to rely on us."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:46)

"In contrast, Yahoo! launched in 1994 from the Stanford campus, within a few minutes' drive of most of the leading venture capital managers in America and a concentration of entrepreneurial business talent" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:46)

"There are smart, capable, hardworking and wealthy people all over the world. Conventional economic thinking says that the basic factors of production, such as human labor, skills, and capital resources, are sufficient to account for economic growth. Investing in these elements alone should generate economic growth. But of course, they don't. Lawrence, Kansas was never able to replicate Silicon Valley's success despite having the basic ingredients." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:46)

"the massive disconnect between the investments we are making in higher education and the resulting outputs in innovation. The American Midwest, for example (where ProFusion was located), educates a disproportionate share of graduate students in science and engineering." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:47)

"Innovation is a "body contact sport." It is a micro-level phenomenon. […] Free markets do not operate in a vacuum, or in a perfect laboratory environment. They are populated by human beings who are messy and chaotic and, when they interact, create situations that are full of friction and impediments to cooperation. People do not always do the right thing or act in their own self-interest. Often, it is because they do not understand or are not even aware of the right thing. Sometimes it is because of emotional or psychological characteristics that do not easily fit in a neoclassical economist's orderly view of human nature. […] When it comes to innovation, the messiness, chaos, and human friction of the real world is enough to kill most opportunities before they get a shot at the marketplace." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:49)

"An inventor who has created world-leading software or therapeutics may be free to do whatever he or she wants with it, but it is rare that they can find the right people with whom to work. Even if we get the intentional man-made barriers out of the way―government restrictions, corruption, poor law enforcement, inconsistent taxes, etc.―many unintentional barriers still remain." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:50)

"Society has a surprisingly huge backlog of scientific discoveries that are "stuck in the pipeline," stalled by the human barriers that prevent them from reaching the marketplace." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:51)

"One unintended result of cluster promotion, not just in Kansas but all over the world, is that startup companies are sometimes more likely to fail. Many companies are pushed by regional government funding to look inward geographically, when in fact they need to do the opposite to succeed […] A recent exhaustive study in Europe declared that local and national clusters were "irrelevant for innovation." […] Because regional clusters like Silicon Valley are easy to see, and have been associated with an area where entrepreneurial success has occurred, many people came to believe that clusters were essential to or even caused innovation to occur." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:52)

"The cost of connecting with people across vast geographical distances has plummeted in a short time due to the Internet and the low cost of telecommunications. […] The "classical" startup model in Silicon Valley made more sense in a world where the costs of collaborating with people outside a particular region were higher. […] a viable startup company today is a multinational corporation from the day of its founding" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:53)

"Coase observed that a "firm" was in fact simply a network of people who found that their costs declined when they did business together on a regular basis. […] Local clusters are no more than an extension of the Coasean model, with lower transaction costs for people who live and work close to each other" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:54)

"Ronald Coase has long argued that in order to understand the system-level economic effects of a human network, it is important to understand the actual behavior and incentives of individual actors within the system. He disdains "blackboard economics" and believes that economists tend to be too theoretical and do not pay enough attention to the details of day-to-day activity. 25 Following his line of thinking, the financial crisis of 2008 might have been preventable if economists had actually understood the specific banking transactions that were at the heart of the crisis. 26 In this book, we apply the same thinking with regard to innovation―you cannot understand the macro without understanding the micro." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:55)

"Ronald Coase is now over 100 years old. In writing this book, we were fortunate enough to connect with him. He suggests today that the ideas he expressed in his original article were far from complete. The real world is far more complicated―one must deal with a range of complex social and psychological factors, personal networks, and information flows. He laments how few economists take these important issues seriously." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:55)

"Firms are not strictly about contracts between people― more importantly, they are about relationships between people." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:55)

"Throughout history, there have been several fundamental barriers that have kept people of diverse backgrounds from working together. 1. Geographic barriers (e.g., mountains, oceans, distance) 2. Social network failures (e.g., people belonging to different social circles) 3. Cultural and language differences (e.g., people not understanding each other) 4. Lack of trust (e.g., people fearful of working together) These fundamental barriers hinder markets from functioning efficiently. They make free markets less free. They inhibit the creation of value. […] the first one, the cost of overcoming geography, has fallen significantly and will continue to fall. […] the barriers that prevent innovators from working together are shifting from the physical to the interpersonal." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:56)

"While greater opportunities for innovation are now possible because vast geographical distances are shrinking, people have not developed the skills for dealing with the vast social distances between diverse communities and cultures. Innovators are having a harder time building trust and collaborating across these human distances." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:56)

"biological ecosystems are much more vibrant if they are comprised of a contiguous tract of land rather than a number of smaller isolated parcels" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:60)

"disintermediation―directly connecting the nodes without them having to go through the hubs. This is at the heart of what companies like Google, eBay, and Craigslist do for a living" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:61)

"High social barriers outside of close circles of family and friends are the norm in the world. […] Human beings start with a prejudice against reaching outside of their circle of trust. One must work hard to overcome the distrust that naturally occurs between people who are socially far apart." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:63)

"Can you remember what America was like before eBay? There were millions of people who owned stuff they did not want, and there were millions of people who wanted that stuff. But they could not find each other. There used to be a lot more garage sales back then. […] Now, instead of the physical products exchanged on eBay, imagine a system for the exchange of invisible non-physical resources―ideas, talent, and capital. Then imagine all of the potential" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:63)

"economic value that remains locked away today because geographical, social, cultural, language, and trust barriers hinder people from trading these resources with each other. When it comes to society's role in innovation, people have been asking the wrong question. In traditional market activity, the dominant historical question has justifiably been: what economic activity would happen if government just gets out of the way? In innovation, however, the question we should be asking is: what economic activity is not happening because of distance, cultural differences, and lack of trust, and how can social institutions help people overcome those barriers?" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:64)

"Conventional free market theory insists that innovation happens naturally when society is mostly left to itself. […] We can call this a passive free market model, which reflects the belief that it is what society does not do that drives economic output. Our work, however, leads us to believe in the potential value of an active free market model―one in which society uses targeted, cost-efficient interventions to enhance the efficiency of the market by helping people bridge social distances that currently hinder innovation." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:64)

"Instead of land, labor, capital, and technology, we focus on ideas, talent, and capital." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:65)

"For decades, people have confused the value of social networks in tight geographies (which can be huge) with the value of the real estate itself (which is usually a commodity)." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:66)

"Social barriers that separate people with ideas, talent, and capital are like invisible "gum" in the gears of innovation systems. Passive free markets might be useful in bringing down artificially-imposed walls, but they still leave the natural social walls in place." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:66)

"Larry Bock […] has founded or co-founded 18 startup companies, and has been an early investor in 22 others. All told, his companies have generated a cumulative market valuation of over $40 billion. He is one of the most prolific company creators in American history that you have almost certainly never heard of." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:70)

"As Larry jokes, "My father-in-law disparagingly calls me a 'promoter'." 2 There probably isn't a word or phrase in the business lexicon that accurately describes what Larry has done in his career. None of the typical labels the business world uses to describe innovators―whether it's "entrepreneur," "venture capitalist," "director," "advisor," "engineer," or whatever―seem to fit Larry's role." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:71)

"the Rainforest is populated with a whole class of people like Larry whose titles do not really explain their jobs." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:71)

"we believe that we have identified a new species of innovator. We call this species the keystone." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:71)

"he did not enjoy the venture business: "I didn't like the fact that every deal had some warts, and you started having to dissect all the bad things instead of doing the new things."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:72)

"Then Larry met venture capitalist Kevin Kinsella, who had an entirely different way of practicing the venture business. Kevin liked to start companies from scratch." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:72)

"What was the magical formula that Kevin and Larry had discovered? This formula, shockingly simple, was a radical departure from the way innovation is still done today in most of the business world. The textbook process of innovation is one that follows a linear progression, starting with basic science, to proof-of-concept, and then to market feasibility testing―all before one ever considers hiring a team, raising money, and building a company. Kevin Kinsella's process was entirely backwards, if one believed in the conventional rules. From observing Kevin, Larry observed how the firm "spent all the seed money pulling a team together rather than doing product proof-of-concept. They saw that as the fastest value creator."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:72)

"Larry describes it in simple terms: You start with a breakout field. That becomes your framework. And then you just start meeting with the world's leaders in that field. Often, these are emerging areas, so there are not a huge number of leaders in the field. I will go to one of those leaders, and I will ask them, "If I were to start a company in this field, what other five people should I involve in such a company?" And I do that successfully with every person I meet. And then pretty quickly, it always coalesces, every single time I've done it. Here are the five world leaders you need to lock up a field, and here is the compelling vision you should pursue to build that company." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:73)

"Larry would usually end up with a company that included, as its founding team, the entire thought leadership of a breakthrough field of science, an entrepreneur identified to run the company, a basic business strategy mapped out, and a great deal of buzz and momentum that could launch the company with high velocity. What Larry did was to "glue" the pieces of a story together out of bunch of random fragments. It is not unlike the role of a movie producer in Hollywood." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:73)

"He facilitated the kind of cooperation that overcomes social friction and allows economic transactions to occur. Entrepreneurial innovation cannot thrive without keystones like Larry Bock." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:75)

"keystones create value because they are brokers of social trust" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:77)

"4.5% of the actors counted in the Bay Area were involved in three or more startups, compared to 2.9% in Boston, 2.0% in San Diego, 1.7% in Seattle, 1.4% in Minneapolis, 1.2% in Austin, 0.9% in Denver, 0.9% in Salt Lake City, 0.9% in Raleigh/Durham, 0.7% in Phoenix, 0.7% in Portland, and 0.3% in Orange County (California)" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:78)

"Larry is today the founder and executive director of the largest celebration of science in the nation, the USA Science & Engineering Festival, which occurs in Washington, D.C." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:78)

"His festival today involves dozens of Nobel Prize winners, Fortune 100 technology executives, university presidents, the White House, and crowds of kids. His first festival in 2010 drew 500,000 attendees, who participated in 1500 hands-on activities and watched 75 live performances." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:79)

"A keystone is not merely an allocator of resources and taker of risks, as conventional economists might define the word "entrepreneur." A keystone is a connector of people. He is the glue." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:79)

"for some reason, the recipe for cooking those ingredients in San Diego yielded a vastly different result than it did in Chicago. If you ask people in San Diego's technology community today what made the difference, the most common answer you will hear will be the name of one man―Bill Otterson―and the organization he helped build: CONNECT." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:80)

"the traits of a keystone―the abilities to bring disparate people together, to exercise persuasion over them, and to give them a common agenda for mutual benefit. Like a honeybee connecting ecosystems that are miles apart" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:82)

"Entrepreneurs are like the valiant field commanders of the Rainforest, whereas keystones might be considered the connecting agents―like recruiting stations and transport networks―that bring the troops together. Many entrepreneurs are keystones, but not all are." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:85)

"this book aspires to expand the traditional narrative focusing on brave solo entrepreneurs fighting against the world, and instead look at the broader impact of the community that surrounds and supports entrepreneurs and their startups. The challenge of building Rainforests is to facilitate the growth of those supportive networks. Without those networks, entrepreneurs tend to fail at high rates." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:85)

"Entrepreneurs are not risk takers per se. They are opportunity seekers. […] Good entrepreneurs are more like risk calculators than risk takers." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:86)

"Entrepreneurs must absorb knowledge and apply it differently than traditional business-people. They tend to be nonlinear thinkers who can integrate and synthesize large amounts of information. They are able to abstract random pieces of data and assemble it in ways that are not apparent to many others. They can fill in the gaps with educated guesses. Consequently, they are attuned to "the moment," constantly looking for ways to apply their knowledge in the present and accelerate their forward momentum." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:86)

"Theorists make bad teachers. Entrepreneurs learn best from peer and practitioner interactions, as opposed to theoretical experts who might have studied entrepreneurship but have not "done" it." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:86)

"Being an entrepreneur is one of the loneliest jobs in the world. One must routinely put on a brave smile, even in the hardest of times, and remain calm, optimistic, and encouraging with customers, investors, employees, and any number of other partners and colleagues. Having access to a Rainforest of supportive, skilled people―including keystones―often means the difference between success and failure for struggling entrepreneurs." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:86)

"innovation requires the labors of a vast ecosystem of executives, engineers, salespeople, advisors, consultants, venture capitalists, angel investors, accountants, landlords, lawyers, marketers, bankers, supportive friends, and countless others." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:87)

"Beyond their immediate self-interest, denizens of the Rainforest frequently seek a return on involvement from participating in and contributing to the success of innovative ventures. It is what we call the "New ROI" of the Rainforest." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:87)

"We believe that there is an underlying fractal geometry of innovation. […] a human-to-human equation, replicated thousands or millions of times, accounts for much of what we see in vibrant Rainforests." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:94)

"participating in an "innovation culture" actually requires us to overcome some of our deepest instincts as human beings. We must fight two forces opposing innovation: our biology and our brains. We fight our biology because deep emotional impulses, remnants of our primitive past, make human beings wary of one another. We fight our brains because innovative behavior is generally so risky and unrewarding that it does not make rational sense in most cases. As a result, when it comes to innovation systems, the forces that push people apart are far stronger than the forces that pull people together." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:94)

"Professor John Gottman, a former professor of psychology at the University of Washington, developed a method of predicting whether married couples would divorce over time. In a 14-year study, his model accurately predicted divorce 93% of the time by observing couples' behavior for merely fifteen minutes. 5 Another study detected patterns that could predict divorce of newlyweds based on just three minutes of observation. Stanford doctoral researcher Malte Jung […] has been applying the same techniques used by Professor Gottman to predict whether teams of innovators will succeed or fail." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:95)

"What characterized non-regulated pairs were generally low levels of energy, with little interactivity, evidence of non-listening, and a constant presence of friction between the programmers. There was rarely any humor, or curiosity in those pairs. Regulated pairs, on the other hand, exhibited high levels of energy and interactivity, participants often laughed or told jokes, and there were ample signs that the participants were listening to each other and visibly seemed to enjoy working with each other. 9 By just looking at the first five minutes of each interaction, he found that "the group hedonic balance significantly correlated not only with subjective performance measures but also with the objective quality of the developed software code."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:96)

"Nonverbal signals indicate emotions, and emotions are at the heart of the collaborative process. We cannot understand innovation without recognizing that economic value creation is determined significantly by our emotions toward one another." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:96)

"Innovation is simply a modern form of the Silk Road. Instead of exchanging goods, however, we exchange ideas and skills." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:98)

"Innovation, as it exists in modern communities like Silicon Valley, is a team sport. It cannot rely on exchanges of goods or ideas solely between disparate individuals. Therefore, we must explore new frontiers beyond the old terrain of exchange and specialization. What happens, for instance, if parties need to exchange ideas and skills that are not learned in years, but which require a lifetime to master? Or what if the ideas and skills are so extraordinary that there are only a handful of people in the entire world who possess them? What if there is only one person in the world with a particular skill? In such cases, it does not seem useful or even accurate to say that we are merely making exchanges to save labor." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:98)

"As historian Niall Ferguson says, "Money is not metal. It is trust inscribed."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:99)

"A greater challenge arises when we are exchanging things that have no readily determined price, or are perceived by opposing parties to have widely different values. If a scientist has spent an entire lifetime researching a possible cure for cancer, how can he or she really put a price tag on their ultimate discovery? In the scientist's eyes, it is priceless. It would have been difficult to accurately estimate the original value of the computer search algorithm that powered Google before there was a Google, especially when you consider that there were thousands of other technologists and entrepreneurs claiming at that time to have invented the next great search engine technology." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:100)

"To launch a new startup company with great potential, one must assemble a whole range of objects with values that are virtually impossible to price accurately. An entrepreneur will typically start with nothing except his ability to talk. From there, he must then be able to assemble a wide network of valuable people and resources to make his company successful―ideas, expertise, market insights, investment capital, legal services, intellectual property, accounting services, banking, manufacturing capabilities, sales and marketing skills, relationships with distributors, regulatory expertise, and so on. Each of these elements is critical to the company's success. How do you organize hundreds of essential people and resources that are impossible to price accurately?" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:100)

"To solve this problem, people have created new tools, including the structure known as a company. If we insert a company in the middle of the basic exchange, it becomes a potential way for all parties to transact equitably. Each party gets a piece of the new company in exchange for their contributions to it." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:101)

"The idea of the company structure, therefore, is a critical artifice in the entrepreneurial innovation process because it replicates the role of currency in the world of goods and services, but it does so for the world of ideas and innovations. Equity (or stock) in an emerging company is the "trust inscribed" of the Rainforest. It is the currency of innovation, whether in the form of common stock, options, warrants, or preferred stock." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:101)

"At the start of every episode of entrepreneurial innovation, there is no outward form. Every company in the beginning is just a group of disparate people with an informally arranged set of ideas. There is no corporate entity in the beginning―there is only a vision of what is possible. As Stanford's Ade Mabogunje would say, "A company is not a thing. It is an event." Although we often treat companies as tangible entities, in Rainforests we think of companies as nothing more than transitory moments of human organization. If we view enterprise creation as a human relationship process―an event―then we gain a profound insight into the "big bang" of innovation." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:101)

"The origin of every innovative endeavor in the history of human society has required an implied exchange based on good faith." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:101)

"If there is no company yet formed, we are left only with a form of barter based on the currency of trust." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:102)

"In reality, the basic barter transaction above does not happen naturally, as the differences in perceived value between parties is often vast." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:102)

"As a consequence, innovation often falters or dies. Where the accurate pricing of intangible elements like knowledge and expertise are impossible to ascertain, or where people have invested entire careers into developing specialized ideas or skills, the economic exchange often never happens. And that is what stops much innovation dead in its tracks." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:102)

"Transactions often do not occur because the parties place wildly differing values on their contributions. They each view what they are giving to be vastly greater than the value they are receiving." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:102)

"the elements required are so highly specialized―say, a lifetime of experience―that it is nearly impossible to determine or agree upon their actual value." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:102)

"The greater the diversity in human specialization, the greater the potential value of exchanges in a system." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:103)

"hyper-diversity tends to create interactions among people with hyperspecialization, which opens the door to a universe of possible hyper-exchanges. It is no accident that places like Silicon Valley have an exceptional amount of diversity among its people, whether by race, ethnicity, birthplace, training, experience, skills, personality, or otherwise. The melting pot offers inherent, but often latent, value. By their nature, however, such ideas and skills are nearly impossible to value accurately. One key solution to this conundrum would seem to be the creation of trust. Trust, after all, is how people since the dawn of human history have bridged gaps when monetary currency was not enough to consummate a transaction. As a practical solution, however, trust is not so trustworthy." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:103)

"the human brain actually has to "work harder" to trust people who have a different ethnicity, language, etc. It is like the difference between reading a complicated textbook and a simple picture book―our brain has to use more energy to process the information it is receiving." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:106)

"the brain demonstrated more cognitive conflict when it was engaged in economic trust games with people of a different religion than it did when dealing with people of the same religion. 28 That is, our brains have to "work harder" to engage in win-win economic transactions with people who are perceived to be outsiders, regardless of the actual value of the economic transaction itself." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:106)

"When people feel like they are not members of a group, their brains process less information communicated by members of the group. 30 Social psychologists call this phenomenon emotional numbing. Social exclusion "numbs" our ability to hear others." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:107)

"The instincts that once helped our ancestors survive are hurting our ability to maximize innovation today." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:107)

"Behavioral expert Janet Crawford puts it succinctly: "Attention has a negative bias. It is much more useful to notice the tiger lurking in a tree than the tasty fruit on its branches." 33 As a consequence, we are wired generally to avoid loss more than to seek gain. Distrust is easier than trust. Perhaps surprisingly, human behavior in the new social networks on the Web has reinforced our tendency to remain in our social ghettos, rather than empower us to move beyond them. Researcher Danah Boyd has demonstrated that young people in social networking communities like Facebook and Myspace tend to recreate online the groups they belong to offline―with the same homogenous race and class characteristics―despite their easy access to hundreds of millions of other types of people." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:108)

"when tensions in the real world rise between Israelis and Palestinians, social activities (such as "friending" and messaging) between Israelis and Palestinians on Facebook decrease almost immediately." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:108)

"Governments and corporations by the thousands have crammed smart people into incubators, innovation centers, or other similar structures, only to find that little of value has emerged and that vast amounts of capital have been wasted. People can be sitting in the same office and still have a vast gulf between them. In virtually all attempts to create artificial Rainforests, the invisible bonds tend to break, the rubber bands snap, and the atoms are left floating on their own." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:112)

"The story of America is the building of a society not burdened by historical tribes. Generally speaking, Americans are less likely to be identified by family history. They are less chained to the past. Instead, Americans tend to be identified by self-reliance and their ability to contribute to the task at hand." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:113)

"California was where people ran in order to escape the rest of America. Perhaps more than any other place on Earth, California is where the atoms were undocked from their moorings and left to float on their own." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:113)

"It is commonly regarded as the land of pioneers, nonconformists, artists, and rebels. It is the land of the free-spirit surfer and the iconoclastic biker. It is identified with both Ronald Reagan, who became a symbol for personal freedom and responsibility, and James Dean, who in movies like Rebel Without a Cause represented rebellion for the sake of rebellion. It is where Steve Jobs urged us to "think different." It is where iconoclastic sports like skateboarding were born." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:113)

"Rainforests have replaced tribalism with a culture of informal rules that allow strangers to work together efficiently on temporary projects." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:114)

"It is no coincidence that the two industries most identified with California―Hollywood and Silicon Valley―are both industries that are by definition impermanent. They both require an environment that enables people to band together quickly for a specific purpose―whether a movie, a television show, or a startup company―and then disband until they reunite for the next project. Or perhaps they never meet again. A major Hollywood film, for example, can require thousands of people entering into a temporary partnership" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:114)

"the way the human brain thinks of social groups is highly malleable, and is based on context. We can create new tribes and social structures if we want." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:114)

"In one recent research experiment, scientists measured facial recognition bias―our brain's tendency to remember faces of our own race better than the faces of another race―and discovered that people easily overcame this bias when they were simply told that the faces they were seeing were members of their own group." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:115)

"Common goals cause people to rise above tribe. The Rainforest functions best when old tribal definitions based on family and history are broken down, and new tribes based on personal interests and professional affiliations are allowed to take their place." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:115)

"A venture capitalist is caught between trying to own as much of a company as possible and trying to leave enough equity in the hands of the entrepreneurial team to keep them fully incentivized to work for the company's success. Furthermore, a venture capitalist wants to preserve a reputation for treating entrepreneurs and other investors fairly in order to make sure that future promising companies will seek his capital." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:116)

"Reputation, good or bad, matters greatly in the venture capital industry. The social feedback system in the Rainforest, with its inherent forms of punishment, is the equivalent of life or death for many of its inhabitants. The new social network sites that allow entrepreneurs to rate venture capital investors and post comments for the world to see―such as TheFunded.com―only reinforce these norms." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:116)

"The informal rules that govern Rainforests cause people to restrain their short-term self-interest for long-term mutual gain. […] "The process of launching a startup company has many similarities to riding a roller coaster. It is a highly irrational act." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:118)

"The basic calculation for the vast majority of the billions of people in the world is that innovative behavior is simply not worth it. […] Innovative behavior is not driven by rational maximization, as neoclassical economists would argue. […] Dan Pink has pointed out that, beyond a basic level of survival, human beings actually are less creative when they are incentivized by more financial reward. Economic research is also generating increasing evidence that is counter-intuitive: As long as the task involved only mechanical skill, bonuses worked as they would be expected: the higher the pay, the better the performance. But once the task called for 'even rudimentary cognitive skill,' a larger reward 'led to poorer performance.' Once someone has enough income to live, additional financial incentives can cause that person to turn off their creative brains in favor of repetitive actions that do not require creativity―like laboratory rats taught to push a lever to get more food." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:120)

"Governments and corporations often try to incentivize innovation by focusing on financial mechanisms, such as tax breaks, subsidies, grants, and loans. But the overall results of this strategy have been poor." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:121)

"Extra-rational motivations are what give people joy and satisfaction during the journey. As a result, the journey becomes the end, not just the means. Recent science supports this idea, as fMRI imaging shows that human brains are wired to enjoy the pursuit of a vision more than the actual achievement of that vision." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:121)

"greed unchecked is not good when it comes to innovation. Greed that is restrained so that a community of people can mutually pursue highly beneficial economic activity, however, can be powerful indeed." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:121)

"Rainforests function when the combined value of social norms and extrarational motivations outweigh the human instincts to fear." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:122)

"Building trust-based teams that can transform the world in positive ways affects the brain in the same addictive way that a narcotic can. As Ade Mabogunje says, "Trust is like cocaine." Human beings derive sustenance from social connections beyond the money they earn from these relationships. We derive pleasure from giving as well as receiving." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:122)

"the process of discovering new and interesting things with others can strengthen relationships, through activating the reward-based dopamine and norpepinephrine systems. […] marriages become stronger when couples engage in novel activities together." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:123)

"We are finding scientific validation for many "soft" human aspirations: the desire to treat people fairly and to be treated fairly, the pleasure of being a member of a community and pursuing a shared goal, the thrill of adventure and discovery, the joy of giving to someone in need, and the addictive quality of trusting and being trusted." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:123)

"One example of the impact of extra-rational motivations is evident when governments, corporations, or foundations issue prizes or challenge grants to achieve technical milestones. Teams that compete for those prizes frequently spend more than the amount of the prize itself. Shaifali Puri, the Executive Director of Scientists Without Borders, recently held a challenge in which the participants invested a total of sixteen times the value of the actual prize money." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:124)

"The Rainforest is in many ways a massively expanded version of a challenge grant. There is an implied understanding that its inhabitants are part of a voluntary, extended community participating in a great, never-ending human contest for building better things, changing lives, making friendships, contributing to something bigger than themselves, discovering the unexpected, experiencing both the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat, and perhaps even making a lot of money. If you actually ask most people in the startup communities in Silicon Valley or similar places why they do what they do, you almost always find extra-rational motivations driving their behavior." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:125)

"What makes an entrepreneur an entrepreneur is the ability to organize otherwise independent atoms, to lead people to collaborate on products or services that, in the beginning, are nothing more than mere ideas. When there are only ideas, he or she must convince people to join the effort by describing a desirable future, a story about what might be. An entrepreneur envisions how to make a new business―like a new work of art―appear from fragmented components. There is joy in the alchemy that happens when organizing these pieces." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:126)

"In much of the Middle East, and in most of the world, win-win has not paid off historically. As a result, people treat day-today interactions as win-lose propositions. […] Zero-sum games are innovation killers. The zero-sum attitude explains much of the difficulty in growing new companies throughout most of the world. Innovation is, after all, a team sport." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:133)

"Contracts are timeconsuming and costly to negotiate. Norms cost little, and provide a way to bypass a lengthy contracting process, like a form of social shorthand. As legendary Silicon Valley attorney John Goodrich once remarked to a surprised associate, "Good businessmen don't need to hire lawyers!"" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:136)

"However, norms require trust, and creating a sufficient level of trust for norms to develop and remain in place is not easy. Norms usually come from shared values or lengthy relationships, not from top-down, authoritarian mandates. Humans create norms from the bottom up to streamline economic activity by reducing its transaction costs. It is self-interested behavior over the long term. Social scientists have found significant evidence that communities, over time, naturally develop norms through repeated interactions of people in a social network." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:136)

"In Israel, one sees a curious dichotomy. In this land of intense zero-sum games, the technology startup industry behaves differently. It is a community within a community, with its own internal rules of behavior and its own sense of trust. In an ocean of zero-sum games, it is a cultural island that thrives on positive-sum transactions." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:136)

"In the book Start-Up Nation, authors Dan Senor and Saul Singer describe this normative culture: deep trust forged within startup teams due to their shared experience of service in the Israeli military; teams with a diversity of talents due to the military's mixing of people from all walks of life; and the unifying social connections of a tight community and global diaspora" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:137)

"The Three Derivatives of Innovation […] The First Derivative is based on helping one innovator at a time in a linear process. Like a manufacturing assembly line, it is based on one-to-one relationships that do not scale easily. The Second Derivative is based on organizing groups of people to help one innovator at a time. It is based on a many-to-one relationship model, so it is more scalable. Programs like Larta Institute, CONNECT, and Endeavor are good examples. Their method is to construct a localized Rainforest of mentors and advisors around each startup. This method of assistance is still labor-intensive, but it is much more efficient than the heavy lifting of the First Derivative. Furthermore, the team approach means that a wider array of skills is accessible to each startup, and the building of small networks aids the creation of trust within those networks. However, it still takes significant effort to organize the right people, mobilize the right resources, and maintain the right funding that supports such initiatives every year. When the subsidies stop, the programs usually stop. Constructing lots of miniature "nature preserves" by hand is still hard work. The Third Derivative is the transformation of human culture. If people in a community are able to learn behavioral patterns that reduce the cost of transactions between them, the system can become self-sustaining." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:138)

"A visitor to Silicon Valley today still feels the legacy of the frontier culture. It is palpable. You can see the physical evidence in the rustic wooden architecture found even in modern buildings. You sense the love of open space in the rolling hills and among the trails in the redwood forests. You notice the large number of ranches and horses dotting the hills. You hear the fierce individualism in the roar of motorcycles―like modern-day horses―racing along the ridges of the mountains. You observe the variety of eclectic, individualistic hobbies that people pursue. The modern high technology industry of Silicon Valley would never have existed without the culture that developed on the American frontier, but not just because of its emphasis on individualism, as most would assume. Silicon Valley is also the heir of the frontier spirit because of its unique collectivism. As Frederick Jackson Turner observed over a century ago, it is the tension between the individual and the collective that matters. The frontier was conquered not just by individualists, but by a culture that enabled individuals to work together pragmatically on mutually beneficial projects." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:139)

"What if we envisioned Silicon Valley as the natural endpoint of a 50,000-year story? Perhaps it could be the latest stage in the evolution of human society, from a culture based on tribes to a culture based on pragmatic individuals. […] The California coast is arguably the furthest point one can travel from the roots of human civilization, from the ties that bound people to the past, and from the rules of behavior imposed by our ancestors' experiences. Silicon Valley happened exactly when and where it should have happened―at the end of the story so far. California today consists largely of people, or their descendants, who are such individualists that they could not even fit into an entire nation of rebels. It is the world's ultimate non-tribe. But people still have to learn to "get along." Even today, people who move to Silicon Valley are surprised at the ease of starting conversations with new people, the lack of hierarchy, the openness to sharing information and ideas, the willingness to collaborate, the tolerance for mistakes, and the rapid style in which new ideas are embraced and attempted." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:140)

"Individualism is a fine idea in theory, until one has to face the realities of finding food, water, clothing, shelter, information, protection, and human companionship. Despite common stereotypes, evidence shows that the frontier was not full of Lone Ranger types. Rather, it consisted largely of individuals and families who had to build social networks, traveling groups, small communities, and frontier posts to help them clear land, plant crops, sell goods, and exchange with one another. Just as in the startup world, individualists had to "get along" to survive, and new types of communities were formed." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:141)

"Silicon Valley is a product of the collision of the frontier culture with the hyper-diversity of modern California. Silicon Valley's emergence coincided with a sharp increase in the diversity of people in California." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:145)

"By 2008, 26.8% of California's population was born outside of the United States, the highest such rate in the country. […] 52.4% of startups in Silicon Valley were founded by at least one immigrant entrepreneur." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:145)

"researchers demonstrated that diversity trumps raw ability for problem-solving in groups. A team of randomly selected people will outperform a team comprised of selected experts because experts can be too similar to one another and possess less diversity of ideas. The process of opening new doors and listening is the real way that entrepreneurs "learn." Businesses are not built by constructing abstract theories while sitting at a desk. They are built in a non-linear, unpredictable manner based on constant iteration and testing in the real world." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:145)

"people on the frontier had to learn to create trust quickly, or risk death." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:146)

"Ewing Kauffman used to say, 'Trust everybody that you work with. You'll get screwed every once in a while, but... people will want to do business with you."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:146)

"Kevin Fong has observed […] Everything is done with a handshake in the Valley. If it's a failure, no one cares. If it succeeds, then everyone is happy." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:146)

"Entrepreneur Mark Pydynowski […] There is a big difference when I talk with entrepreneurs in California and those in the Midwest. In California, people are generally willing to share a lot about their ideas. In the Midwest, entrepreneurs who seek me out for advice are often not willing to tell me anything about what they are doing. They are so afraid of sharing that they end up hurting themselves." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:147)

"A single conversation stifled by a lack of trust does not seem significant, but multiply such a conversation thousands or millions of times, and the macro effects can be profound." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:147)

"Trust in Rainforests requires a style of transparent communication which is not common in many parts of the world. Our work in places with strong family cultures, such as East Asia, Latin America, or the Middle East, has revealed a cultural tendency for people to keep their "real" opinions to themselves out of courtesy or conflict-avoidance. Passive-aggressive behavior―which causes miscommunication and misinterpretation―can easily turn into resentment in a fast-paced environment. In places like the post-Soviet countries, people often struggle to have a genuine debate without causing a nasty argument. Trust depends on social patterns that encourage openness without defensiveness, honesty without argument, and opinions without grievances." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:147)

"A Rainforest only works when people believe in the value of experimentation and iteration together." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:149)

"We can think of building Rainforests as a version of cognitive behavioral therapy. […] CBT works by correcting what psychologists call cognitive distortion. Cognitive distortion happens when we interpret actions of others through biased lenses […] Over time, the brain's patterns of behavior can be rewired through self-awareness and real-world validation of certain behaviors as opposed to other behaviors." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:183)

"Keystones should create environments that encourage unpredictable and serendipitous interactions between people." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:186)

"No agent can possibly have enough information and time to broker all the potentially useful connections in a Rainforest." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:186)

"Leaders routinely make the error of thinking that drawing lines between organizational boxes is the same as actually connecting real people between the organizations. They fail to look through the macro "paper" structures to see the micro individuals within. After all, it is the individuals―not the leaders―who will actually do the work and deal with the real challenges. Real-life linkages are human-to-human, not group-to-group." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:186)

"One of the most powerful tools for generating diversity is diaspora. We do not just mean ethnic diaspora, such as Jewish or Chinese people spread around the world. We mean diaspora in the broadest sense, as in boundary-crossers―people who have left one group to join another. This might include immigrants, emigrants, university alumni, former co-workers, or former collaborators." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:187)

"There are three major daily newsletters in the American venture business―Private Equity Hub, VentureWire, and Fortune Finance (edited by Dan Primack)—which provide a steady stream of social feedback for the industry, including castigations of venture firms that mistreat their entrepreneurs. Another source—the website www.TheFunded.com―enables entrepreneurs to provide candid, anonymous eBay-like ratings and reviews of investors." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:191)

"We can ask entrepreneurs, fund managers, mentors, and others who want to participate in building a Rainforest to sign such a physical contract. We can even make it a requirement for receiving incubation services, a grant, or capital. To sign, they must use a good old-fashioned pen. By signing, they are agreeing to abide by the norms that are necessary for growing a vibrant innovation ecosystem. The actual wording varies from place to place, as it should. Here is one example of what a Social Contract might look like: The Rainforest Social Contract I am joining a global community of people who share a common faith in the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship. I am open to meeting anyone in this community. I understand that I will receive valuable help from others for free or at a very low cost. I agree to "pay forward" whatever positive benefits I receive. For every introduction I get, I will provide an introduction to another person. For every hour of advice I receive, I will give an hour of advice to someone else. For every risk someone takes with me, I will take a risk with a different person. I will give trust to others before expecting to receive trust in return. I will treat everyone fairly. I will take advantage of no one. I will bring people together, as none of us is as smart as all of us. I will dream, experiment, iterate, and persist. I understand that mistakes and failure are acceptable ways of testing new ideas. I will open myself to learning from others. I will help nurture learning in others. Each person is a role model for everyone else. I will live these ideals as a member of the community." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:192)

"On the East Coast, money was power. Money called the shots. You see this behavior on Wall Street. You see it everywhere in fact. In most places in the world, the presumption in business is that money dominates and sets the rules. But the West Coast was different. "In Boston, it was the entrepreneurs who dressed nicely and showed up on time to impress the investors," Phil remembers. "In Silicon Valley, it was the opposite." 2 Why this difference? Where did it come from? The role of money on the West Coast had followed a different path. Forged in the egalitarian culture of the American frontier―where what you could do mattered more than what you owned or where you came from―capital was just one component in the complex tapestry of the economic landscape. Money did not confer inherent entitlement or hierarchy, as it might elsewhere. Money was considered a tool. The venture capital industry that evolved on the West Coast inherited that belief. As Phil observes, "Look at what venture capital really is. It's just a service industry to entrepreneurs. The entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley have figured out that they are the real gems and that the money itself is just a commodity. They have a 'buying' mentality."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:197)

"It does not take much money to make a huge difference in the beginning. Therefore, the problem with innovation capital is not money. Money is everywhere. Instead, the key is how capital is aggregated and structured at each stage, and the behaviors of the people who control it." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:199)

"what the landscape for venture capital looks like today, especially for seed-stage and early-stage risk capital. About half of it is in Silicon Valley, and California as a whole has even more of it. There is apparently a lot of "missing capital" elsewhere in America and indeed in the rest of the world." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:200)

"in the earliest stages, the risk-reward equation breaks down. […] The real-world transaction costs of doing seed-stage or early-stage investments can eliminate many of their theoretical benefits." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:201)

"If you are going to spend over a year of your life raising money without getting paid for it, you might as well invest large amounts of money at a time and get the biggest leverage possible to make it worthwhile. Thus, few venture capitalists are willing to invest relatively small amounts in companies that are still proving their underlying technology or developing their first product. It is too hard to organize a venture fund only to "waste it" on such small deals." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:202)

"At some point, an investor cannot get more financial return out of a company, no matter how early in the risk curve he or she invests." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:202)

"In theory, as a company matures, the valuation should increase, and the same amount of stock should cost more to purchase. In practice, however, we know this theory breaks down in the earliest stages of startups. An additional share of stock purchased by an investor can be offset by additional disincentive for entrepreneurs, which lowers the odds of success for everyone. There is an invisible cost to owning more stock in an early-stage company. The most stock a venture capital investor can own is a "fair" amount, as perceived by the entrepreneurial team. After that, each dollar more invested is undercutting the value of the prior dollar invested. At some point, you cannot squeeze any more juice out of the orange. So, the investor has a great incentive to wait. Earlier risk does not yield a commensurate reward. In later stages, after the total value of a company has grown, even a smaller relative percentage can be enough to motivate a team, so the problem diminishes. Higher risk in early-stage venture capital is not rewarded the way one would expect in the bond markets or the public stock markets." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:202)

"a main reason that VCs might consider investing earlier, when it does happen, is not to extract more return from a particular deal. Instead, they are often trying to get the jump on their competitors in the VC industry." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:203)

"Lowered transaction costs due to trust and social norms make high-risk seed-stage and early-stage venture capital investing more profitable." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:203)

"Seed-stage and early-stage capital is rare not because there aren't enough great opportunities. It is rare because of the limitations inherent in the process of enterprise creation, capital aggregation, deal structuring, and human motivation. However, there are still great companies to be built. That is why there has always been a need for subsidized capital to fill the gap. Subsidized capital can come from a government or a corporate sponsor, but its purpose is the same―to create a financial bridge for innovation, so that opportunities can move from the left side of the diagram to the point at which the risk-reward equation finally enables the profit mechanism to take over sustainably" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:204)

"Subsidized capital plays a huge role in American innovation, but that role is underpublicized. Irwin Jacobs, the co-founder of Qualcomm, credits the existence of his company to a little known grant program called Small Business Innovation Research, or SBIR. 13 Each year, the government quietly invests about $2.5 billion in thousands of startup companies that are seeking to bring new scientific inventions from the laboratory to the marketplace." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:204)

"One study calculated that SBIR accounts for about one-quarter of all the innovations ranked among the R&D 100 Award winners each year. 14 In fact, as a testament to the general importance of subsidized capital, only 11 of the U.S. entities that produced award-winning innovations in the year studied were not beneficiaries of any federal funding at all." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:204)

"Subsidized capital only works when it is integrated into the continuum of capital in the Rainforest, not existing separately from it. Grants for the commercialization of cutting-edge science work best when they link grantees to the rest of the Rainforest, encouraging them to meet new people, hear new ideas, take new risks, and learn new behaviors." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:204)

"Venture capital, therefore, is not about writing a bunch of small checks. Nor is it about selecting winning stocks, like a mutual fund manager or stock broker. Venture capital is about creating value where none existed before. This value is grown only after the money is invested―in close collaboration with the entrepreneurs." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:206)

"good venture capitalists are positive-sum builders of companies―not zero-sum money managers. Venture capital is not about extracting value out of companies, like an oil pump might extract oil. It is about creating long-term value in close relationships" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:208)

"Venture capital done wrong can ruin entrepreneurs and even destroy a local venture economy, like a parasitic species introduced into a natural ecosystem." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:208)

"The most fundamental role of venture capitalists is to control how equity is allocated in a company and to align incentives of key parties productively." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:208)

"As Phil Wickham describes: You're trying to build the best organization you can, to solve the most acute problem you can, to address the biggest market you can. The only way to do that is through trust." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:208)

"Venture capital done well is a form of biological mutualism―it reinforces the fragile bonds that hold people together in a nascent enterprise. Venture capital done poorly can break those bonds apart quickly." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:209)

"one cannot ignore the macro effects of these types of micro behaviors. To create the right kind of macro-system, one must intentionally nurture the "right" set of microbehaviors, and involve people who have the character to live up to those standards. The world does not need more asshole venture capitalists." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:212)

"Venture capital is definitely not the easiest way for someone to make money. Doing private equity—also known as leveraged buyouts—is far easier." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:212)

"the term "venture capital" was originally derived from wealthy businessman Jock Whitney's idea that this money was intended as "private adventure capital." […] The early venture capitalists in the Valley were a lot like cowboys. Many of them had frontier-style mindsets. Much of the industry as we know it today started in the 1950s and 1960s from a small, informal group of young, not-so-wealthy individual investors in San Francisco. As Bill Edwards, one of the original members of the group, recalls, "None of us had enough money to do an investment by ourselves, so we had to have help." The entire venture capital industry in Silicon Valley raised only $10 million in 1975." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:212)

"Rainforests have a lot to do with mushrooms. […] Fungi are among the most robust biological systems on Earth. […] A mycelium does not have a "body" per se. It is made entirely of hyphae, which are long, thin tubes filled with liquid that act like a complex web of veins. […] Anastomosis happens when the ends of the hyphae networks become fused together […] When a fungus attains anastomosis, you can cut off part of the system, but the rest of it stays alive. The circulation of vital fluids is always able to reach any part of the network, no matter which part is damaged. In addition, the mycelium has the ability to absorb nutrients from anywhere in the network and distribute them to the rest of the system." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:226)

"the human circulatory system is a partial example of such a "round trip" network. You can lose a limb or digit―say, a finger―but with the right care, the rest of the body is able to maintain full circulation and eventually recovers." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:227)

"The flow-form model depicts the connections in a social network as the movement of fluids in tubes, as in a mycelium network. As Tesson describes: The "flow-form model" contrasts at a profound level with conventional models of communicative networks, which are often presented as systems of interconnected nodes, and it offers a radically different way of conceptualizing how a networked structure could behave. The flow-form model therefore represents a shift away from the nodecentered thinking of conventional network theory, towards an understanding of networks as representations of communicative flow."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:228)

"Economic activity looks atomic when examined at the microscopic level, but it appears like a fluid when examined at the macroscopic level. The flow-form model is a way to represent the middle point where the micro and macro intersect." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:230)

"in the Rainforest, ideas, talent, and capital can flow from one person to the next without a discrete or formal "transaction" per se. […] the movement of ideas, talent, and capital―the "contents"―is dependent on the relative openness or tightness of the arteries―the "contexts". Communication between people is the heart of flow within the system." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:231)

"Even seemingly inconsequential tidbits of advice in the Rainforest can be of extraordinary value." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:232)

"The faster the velocity of nutrients within a system, the healthier the entire system. We can think of ideas, talent, and capital like particles that are limited by the speed at which they flow. If a new idea is injected somewhere in the network—say, a revolutionary method to convert waste to energy at lower cost—we want that idea to have the ability to circulate within the whole system, to get where it is needed, whether that destination ends up being an entrepreneur, a corporation which can license the technology, or a researcher who can incorporate the idea in her own work." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:232)

"The flow-form model assumes that all links can potentially be opened given enough diversity, trust, rules, and extra-rational motivations." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:234)

"To make "good enough" observations at the macroscopic scale, macroeconomists can assume that a system has uniformly open arteries moving resources around―like an "invisible hand"―and still have a useful model." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:234)

"The Internet is causing the anastomosis of human society. It is as if the long root structures of humanity, which started in various disparate civilizations around the world, are starting to connect together again at their ends." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:235)

"Perhaps Silicon Valley was just one of the first points of fusion of these human networks. Anastomosis in the human race, however, can be dangerous. There is significant risk because unlike the fungal mycelium networks or the aspen forest, the human race is not a single organism. Humans often have allergic reactions to one another." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:235)

"The Rainforest might be considered a type of anti-allergy medication for human civilization." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:235)

"Just as a fungus must expend nutrients to fuse the ends of hyphae together, a society must invest resources to connect distant points in social networks." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:235)

"Many traditional measures for economic development tend to focus on static aspects―like measuring someone's temperature or weight. They are snapshots in time. What is more important is to measure the dynamism of the system over time―like measuring someone's pulse. The flow-form model gives us a tool to take the "heartbeat" of innovation, rather than its "temperature."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:238)

"can we eventually design something like a Gross Innovation Product? Probably. […] As computing power increases, we may be able to watch this creative reassembly―the process of people breaking apart and recombining―in real time, with increasing specificity and detail. […] we may even be able to see the Rainforest "breathing" someday" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:243)

"Although chemistry thinks of bonds between atoms as forces, quantum theory thinks of bonds between atoms as relationships. […] These interactions are never based on certainties, but rather on probabilities. […] This is the same in the Rainforest. Sometimes entrepreneurs get along; sometimes they can't stand each other." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:243)

"Designing Rainforests is about enhancing the quantum probabilities of innovation, not attempting to engineer perfection." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:244)

"We propose that policymakers consider the creation of a new legal form of company entity―a provisional corporation―to provide formal protection to people in the exploratory process of forming a new startup. The cost for registering this type of entity should be free." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:247)

"Alternatively, entrepreneurs who choose not to register as a company are treated, by default, as either sole proprietors (with personal liability) or partners (with joint and several liability, which means that the actions of one person can create full liability for the others). A provisional corporation could allow startup founders to begin work together—allowing them to apply for grants, license intellectual property from universities, pitch for investors, etc.—without risking liability. Their provisional status would have to be disclosed to all counterparties, and they could be given a specified timeframe in which to convert their provisional status to full status." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:247)

"The last great frontier to cross is the one that divides two souls." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:250)

"The Rainforest helps innovators "tinker" together in the same way that atoms "tinker" together in natural biological systems. Tinkering is how Rainforests discover more valuable recipes for combining and recombining ideas, talent, and capital together." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:251)

"Author Michael Malone calls it the "Pussification of Silicon Valley." […] There was a time in the Valley―not that far in the past―when your word was your bond, conventional wisdom was your enemy, and everyone's top job was to build killer companies. As Malone observes, the Valley is increasingly becoming populated with people

"who will compromise everything―pleasure, physical excitement, love, and friendship―in the hope of living a long, healthy, and hopelessly uneventful life. Silicon Valley used to pulverize such pussies, now it lionizes them."" (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:254)

"human systems are dissipative. Trust and norms tend to revert over time. It takes effort to maintain their strength." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:254)

"The Valley has the potential to be to global innovation in the 21st century what New York City has been to finance and media in the 20th century, what Amsterdam was to trade in the 17th century, and what Northern Italy was to finance, trade, and the arts in the 15th century." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:255)

"The core value proposition of Silicon Valley in the coming decades will be its role as the cultural center of gravity, the enforcer of norms, and the connector of resources in the global Rainforest." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:255)

"Leaders in the Rainforest must learn to engineer serendipity, not outcomes. Their primary weapons in this fight are the bridging of social barriers, the building of trust, and the adoption of the Rules." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:257)

"We are proposing a new active capitalism. Capitalism is not about simply reciting the mantra of "less government." Capitalism is about decentralizing decision-making and empowering individuals to connect, collaborate, experiment, and create commercial value on their own. Congress did exactly this when it funded the First Transcontinental Railroad about 150 years ago. It is perfectly consistent with capitalism that we invest in bridging divides between people to lower their transaction costs for doing business with one another. The Rainforest is not mere business theory. It provides a new paradigm for policies and strategies that transcend the left and right divides of the political spectrum." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:257)

"Whereas macroeconomics can be explained by the mathematics that govern the movement of oceans, Rainforests can be explained by the wave equations that govern how particles self-organize into larger patterns." (Hwang and Horowitt 2012:266)