https://roamresearch.com/#/app/help/page/Vu1MmjinS #source

"Large-scale collaboration requires a more flexible data structure than the classic file tree. Roam is built on a knowledge graph that maps all possible relationships, with 'smart' links between defined concepts. Users can connect similar ideas in multiple overlapping hierarchies, remix them without overwriting the original context, and selectively share parts of the graph with others to collaborate on specific sub-questions" (White-Sullivan :3)

"Current solutions also lack interconnectivity. Many files are divorced from context; cast into a drawer, rather than methodically fitted into a broader framework of knowledge. Knowledge trees can create pseudo-relationships between files nested within a given hierarchy, but these are not explicit, and can only describe a vertical 'parent and child' taxonomy. Some tools, such as web pages and wikis, also allow for orthogonal linking between related files, but this takes place in an ad hoc fashion, and again, there is no ability to explicitly define relationships." (White-Sullivan :3)

"Rarely are the relationships between arguments and pieces of evidence explicitly laid out, except perhaps in the notes of the author investigating the claims." (White-Sullivan :7)

"The ambiguity of natural language derails many discussions. Unless [[terms]] are clearly defined from the outset, any form of argument is futile, and will often end up entrenching the initial positions of the interlocutors" (White-Sullivan :7)

"The ability to use clearly defined sets within a dependency graph helps to resolve ambiguity, reducing the chances of participants talking at cross-purposes, or deliberate "motte-and-bailey" style strategic equivocation.5" (White-Sullivan :7)

"The interconnectivity of the Roam knowledge graph constantly creates opportunities for serendipity to blossom. Each node in the network can be viewed in several graphical displays, allowing users to see related ideas, scan up and down the vertical hierarchy, examine nearby clusters of nodes, and observe patterns." (White-Sullivan :9)

"The Roam search function can be calibrated to include as much or as little 'noise' as the user desires. While looking for a specific passage or note, search is narrow enough to find exactly what the user has in mind. However, it can also be broadened out for 'fishing trips' aimed at surfacing categories of ideas. Some search results will consist of notes that the user might otherwise have forgotten about, some will be noise, and others will spark ideas the user didn't even know they were looking for." (White-Sullivan :9)

"Collaborative problem-solving While the individual use case for Roam stands on its own merits, the ultimate goal is to create a platform for collaborative research and learning. Current protocols are bound by the assumption of necessary consensus. The flexibility of a curated knowledge graph allows for a more pluralistic approach, with the ability to weight conflicting opinions and separate signal from noise without resorting to either autocracy or democracy." (White-Sullivan :10)

"Assume a trend has a signal-to-noise ratio of 1:1 on an annual basis (50% of the data are meaningful, 50% are random). Observing the same data on a daily basis, the composition changes to 95% noise, 5% signal. Observing the data hourly (as news hounds and market junkies do), and it becomes 99.5% random - which is to say, two hundred times more noise than signal. 9 Institutions entrusted with interpreting the data include the media, academia, and legislature. Some agents within these institutions deliberately obscure the truth, as demonstrated by 'fake news', p-hacking, and politicking. While actively malicious behaviour is the exception, even the best-intentioned reporters, researchers and analysts are not immune to being fooled by randomness. For most people, the problem of sorting signal from noise therefore involves finding trustworthy and accurate secondary sources of information. This difficult [[task]] is often frustrated by gated scientific journals, as well as search engine algorithms increasingly gamed by SEO-savvy content marketers." (White-Sullivan :10)

"The goal of Roam is to enable systematic curation and collaboration on a large scale. Users will be able to selectively share parts of their graphs publicly, or with circles of peers and colleagues. In turn, they will be able to follow the work of persons they trust, whether they be domain experts or enthusiastic amateurs. Those looking to acquire specific knowledge can turn immediately to trusted sources, and set alerts to receive updates about new pieces of information pertaining to an area of interest." (White-Sullivan :11)

"By way of contrast, consider Github: Libraries are built on other libraries, and functions are built from other functions. Developers build tools that others can build upon to build ever more impressive tools. Most of the modern web is built on open-source technologies, which would not have been possible if programmers followed the old protocols for intellectual collaboration. Many problems can be solved by writing code, but natural language is still the way we determine which problems are worth solving. Natural language is how we explain the world to one another, and communicate our models of reality. It is the language of education. It is the language of decision-making. That language needs a toolchain for collaboration that is just as good as the one for managing code." (White-Sullivan :11)

"Against autocracy; against democracy The problem of necessary consensus is resolved by individuals or groups assembling their own graph of inferences, based on premises or data curated from their trusted networks. However, collaboration still requires a mechanism for evaluating which ideas are best. In the same way that individuals assign weightings to their personal predictions and decisions, groups must be able to 'vote' on the merits of any given idea, premise, or piece of evidence. There are various options for how these collective weightings might be calibrated, some of which are briefly described below" (White-Sullivan :11)

"Believability scores Hedge fund manager Ray Dalio pioneered a decision-making system at Bridgewater Associates that is much closer to epistocracy than democracy: The opinions of more "believable" people, who have repeatedly proven their grasp of a given topic or trait, hold more weight than those with lower believability scores. There is nothing to stop Dalio being overruled by his most junior employees, as long are they are consistently more right than he is. Implementing a similar system in Roam would necessitate the ability to track performance, perhaps by how much original content a user has contributed to the graph with broad support, or how well-calibrated their predictions are." (White-Sullivan :12)

"Prediction markets When people succumb to peer pressure and other biases, do not have enough specialist knowledge, or deliberately make false predictions, the 'wisdom of the crowd' can end up being very wrong. The insight behind prediction markets is that participants can be incentivised to profit from any such mistakes. Wherever someone believes the consensus is wrong, they can stake money on it, and move the probability back to a better informed position. Insider information is not only permitted, but welcomed. In this way, vast amounts of information can be synthesised into one constantly updated data point, which is often remarkably accurate. The uptake and growth of prediction markets has been dampened by regulatory issues, but possible workarounds include a non-fiat token, or reputation-linked points system." (White-Sullivan :12)

"Clearly a fundamentally different approach is required. The Roam vision for human knowledge is a collective, open-source intelligence, constantly rearranging, iterating and evolving in the pursuit of truth. Each of us would become a node within this collective intelligence, forging links and creating networks, sharing the very best each has to offer, improving ourselves even as we improve others, and advancing the interests of humanity as a whole." (White-Sullivan :13)