#source 

# Jeff Tang, “Athensresearch/Athens - Vision,” GitHub, June 10, 2020, https://github.com/athensresearch/athens.

"We've recently seen an explosion in Tools for Networked Thought like Roam Research, Obsidian, Semilattice, and so on and so forth. These tools create value because they allow users to create knowledge associatively, divergently, and then emergently. This is more important now than ever before because in the past few decades we've seen exponential growth in data and information. However, our ability to make sense of these inputs, to convert data and information to knowledge and wisdom, is already capped by the mainstream tools today. Using a graph database, bi-directional links, and hypertext transclusions, these tools enable users to create and traverse knowledge in a way that mirrors how humans organically create knowledge — associatively and contextually. These "knowledge graphs" break out of the "file-and-cabinet" hierarchical paradigm." ([Tang 2020:1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=1))

"Tools for Networked Thought should be open-source." ([Tang 2020:1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=1))

"What makes Tools for Networked Thought different from normal Tools for Thought is that they have bi-directional links and transclusions (which are just richer bi-directional links). [...] It's also the fact that many of these tools are built on top of a graph database. To acquire exponential returns on knowledge, we will need to be able to navigate and manipulate exponentially large datasets. [...] We will need specific features like graph visualizations as well as an industrial data query language (Datalog) that can represent and operate on thousands if not millions of nodes, blocks, and edges. Knowledge at scale requires a data model that is more robust than a collection of markdown files.
Athens has implemented bi-directional links and transclusions. This can be and has been done in under 100 lines of Clojure and Datascript." ([Tang 2020:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=2))

"The Web should've always have been bi-directional. The reason why it's not is because it's a security nightmare. Letting someone write to your website or server by simply linking to your domain necessarily opens you up to malicious exploits. There have been a few unsuccessful attempts at notifications when someone links to your blog. Even these have led to DDoS attacks.
[...] conversations are naturally networked and self-referential. But all we have right now is a ceaseless tidal wave of messages represented as an append-only log. Managing it all with search, one level of threads, and channels is Sisyphean at best.
[...] Unison, darklang, repl.it, and ObservableHQ are showing us the power of tooling and languages that treat the Web as a first-class citizen. With WASM and GraalVM on the horizon, soon we'll be able to write and run any code anywhere. We should have IDEs and languages that are similarly flexible, that can exploit modern UIs and distributed backends. [...] while a lot can be done using bi-directional links within an app, far more could be done using bi-directional links between apps. Apps today are siloed. A protocol that enables apps to securely communicate data between one another would break down these siloes." ([Tang 2020:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=3))

"multiplayer, joinable knowledge graphs will follow" ([Tang 2020:5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=5))