# Xu, Erica. „Obsidian – A knowledge base that works on local Markdown files“. Hacker News, 2020. https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23324598.
 #source

"As you put in more notes and make more connections, the knowledge base gets more valuable, so we think it's important that you can 100% own your data and not rely on any cloud services." (Xu 2020:1)

"Andy Matuschak's [1] system, using his note-link-janitor script [2] to generate backlinks and Typora to edit." (Xu 2020:1)

"it seems that Obsidian generates backlinks using file name, not title. I prefer linking by title." (Xu 2020:1)

"It's possible to get a similar system with TiddlyWiki and the Krystal theme plus a few plugins" (Xu 2020:1)

"Quiver: Every note has an unique id, same as attachments (photos, files, pdfs, etc). My only problem with Quiver is that it seems that development has stopped, so the chances of adding new bits (like link autocomplete, for example), are thin." (Xu 2020:2)

"In Zettlr, new files are created based on a timestamp by default, e.g. 20200528171636.md. You can add YAML frontmatter like this: --- title: Something --- and the title will be reflected in the file navigator, instead of 20200528171636.md." (Xu 2020:2)

"Extending a piece of software requires generally extensive familiarization with the codebase, possibly ranging into millions of lines. On the other hand, a well documented plugin or scripting system, which sits on top of the existing domain logic and is well documented and full of examples, generally is an excellent way to allow extending the base app. The base app can be open or closed source. Without scripting or plugin system it's still a black box for most intents (as the time needed to study and change it would likely be too much). […] the question was "is an open source software more extensible...". And for most situations where software is used the answer is no. […] the best way to make software (openor closed-source) extensible is via a plugin API. without it, the only way for end users to extend open-source software is to fork and maintain the fork forever, or attempt to merge upstream. so one might argue that the quality of the plugin API (and its documentation) is the primary measure of a software's "extensibility"." (Xu 2020:5)

"I actually have a script that lets me use Dropbox or another syncing provider to sync my working tree, separate from the repo itself, so that my history isn't polluted with excessive automated commits, but it is still tracked relative to where it was checked out, and resolved automatically. That way you can have the strengths of git without the drawbacks. You may also want to check out git-annex/datalad." (Xu 2020:17)

"I will never again build any kind of workflow for my knowledge on top of anything that isn't open source. […] The peace of mind I get knowing that all of my data is under my control is worth it, after scrambling to archive content from failed or pivoting services, removing my data from businesses that try to exploit it or trying to migrate my data from one old app to a different newer app." (Xu 2020:25)

"You can also keep notes in git, sync them using Working Copy and use IA Writer." (Xu 2020:28)

"have switched completely to taking nodes using https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook I back everything up in a private git repo and then use various plugins built on top of mdbook to get all the functionality I want: * rendering graphviz: https://github.com/dylanowen/mdbook-graphviz * adding tags to the pages: https://github.com/dylanowen/mdbook-tag * setting up sections to only render locally and not get published: https://github.com/dylanowen/mdbookaccess The plugin system is super easy to use and you don't need to code everything in rust. You can use any language. I'm also working on a better renderer instead of just running the mdbook server all the time: https://github.com/dylanowen/mdnotes I believe with plugins you can meet most of the requirements you have: * bidirectional: definitely could be a plugin" (Xu 2020:29)