# Indentation for structure

#claim 

Indentation is a good way to structure notes while writing. However it is not a good fit for the block-link format. Indented text could be automatically converted to new blocks and then linked with the block above. 

Indentation means a hierarchical, nested structure – which is great for outlines.

["Outlines are composed of movable parts, as opposed to finished paragraphs and blocks of texts. Hierarchy creates context. You can see the structure of the ideas you employ. You can attach research notes as references as they are at first instead of embedding them in the text immediately." ([Tietze 2014:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/R5RGSYBK?page=2))](Indentation%20for%20structure%20631312a28f1f4e49921471770a6f918b/Outlines%20are%20composed%20of%20movable%20parts,%20as%20opposed%200b4290552c154cffb2b333f2959849d6.md)

["I know when an item in the outline has descendants, I will have move them, too, because descendants belong to their ancestral item. Moreover, the relationship from the item I want to extract to its ancestor provides context information I may have to provide again when I move it." ([Tietze 2014:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/R5RGSYBK?page=2))](Indentation%20for%20structure%20631312a28f1f4e49921471770a6f918b/I%20know%20when%20an%20item%20in%20the%20outline%20has%20descendants%203664397a32c44f23bce0b37c4e31ceee.md)

["You can attach research notes to parts of your outline as descendant items to make clear what belongs together." ([Tietze 2014:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/R5RGSYBK?page=2))](Indentation%20for%20structure%20631312a28f1f4e49921471770a6f918b/You%20can%20attach%20research%20notes%20to%20parts%20of%20your%20out%209e5915e6bf0d4cd48a565ea74536a07f.md)

["Indenting too deep is a sign that I have to consider creating sub-sections" ([Tietze 2014:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/R5RGSYBK?page=2))](Indentation%20for%20structure%20631312a28f1f4e49921471770a6f918b/Indenting%20too%20deep%20is%20a%20sign%20that%20I%20have%20to%20consid%20dc16b2664ee248e7941f3e2ebc10dccd.md)

["This approach is really similar to Cal Newport's technique to start a paper with a few topic notes, paste in all the quotes, and finally write a coherent text around these: Step 3: Dump the Quotes In the document containing your topic skeleton: start typing, under each topic, all of the quotes from your sources that you think are relevant. Label each quote with the source it came from. We call the final document a topic-level outline. Unlike the compact, hierarchical outlines promoted by the orthodoxy, a topic-level outline is huge (close the size of your finished paper), and flat in structure (no reason to use 18 different levels of indentations here.) Step 4: Transform, Don't Create When you write your paper, don't start from a blank document. Instead, make a copy of your topic-level outline and transform it into the finished paper. For each topic, begin writing, right under the topic header, grabbing the quotes you need as you move along. Remember, these quotes are right below you in the document and are immediately accessible." ([Tietze 2014:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/R5RGSYBK?page=3))](Indentation%20for%20structure%20631312a28f1f4e49921471770a6f918b/This%20approach%20is%20really%20similar%20to%20Cal%20Newport's%20t%208963b3a71c204f3fa0c4885a7e371e2b.md)