# Links as a necessary relation between blocks

#claim 

[[links between blocks produce structure]]
[[Links innerhalb von Text (wikilinks) oder nur zwischen Blöcken]]
[[different kinds of links?]]
[[different strength of links?]]

["conversations are naturally networked and selfreferential. But all we have right now is a ceaseless tidal wave of messages represented as an append-only log. Managing it all with search, one level of threads, and channels is Sisyphean at best." ([Tang 2020:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=3))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/conversations%20are%20naturally%20networked%20and%20selfrefe%2033e19b6d30e74d20b1fd0ebf29f19d12.md)

["The Web should've always have been bi-directional. The reason why it's not is because it's a security nightmare. Letting someone write to your website or server by simply linking to your domain necessarily opens you up to malicious exploits. There have been a few unsuccessful attempts at notifications when someone links to your blog. Even these have led to DDoS attacks." ([Tang 2020:3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=3))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/The%20Web%20should've%20always%20have%20been%20bi-directional%20%202c3288351cd4439aafdbda2724f35e6d.md)

["What makes Tools for Networked Thought different from normal Tools for Thought is that they have bi-directional links and transclusions (which are just richer bi-directional links)." ([Tang 2020:2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/KTGD8N25?page=2))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/What%20makes%20Tools%20for%20Networked%20Thought%20different%20f%20943eb302f1d54a9f9bb1aea06c3ec95e.md)

["Und was ist ein Zettelkasten, wenn nicht ein massiver Graf oder Concept-Map?" ([Clear 2020:8](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/SFQLIRC3?page=8))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Und%20was%20ist%20ein%20Zettelkasten,%20wenn%20nicht%20ein%20massi%203f591fdabff54678a3fa1d7700b62852.md)

[Kialo is based on a mind map from nested pros & cons](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Kialo%20is%20based%20on%20a%20mind%20map%20from%20nested%20pros%20&%20co%20f028e578c0484dddbb80f059726fafd9.md)

["All linear texts can assume that the reader is familiar with the preceding sections. This makes them context-poor. Within hypertext, individual texts become context-independent, and all difficult terms and concepts are explained primarily with additional hyperlinks. In the same way in which the web helped delinearize the global sources of information, SuperMemo can help you delinearize your reading of whatever linear material you decide to import to SuperMemo. While reading with SuperMemo, you will see a linear text as a sequence of sections subdivided into paragraphs and individual sentences. SuperMemo will help you provide a separate and independent processing for each section, paragraph or sentence." ([Wozniak :1](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/F9MVCIM6?page=1))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/All%20linear%20texts%20can%20assume%20that%20the%20reader%20is%20fam%205a6ea6b93c9249aaa3abe8336f1c158e.md)

["Beachte dabei das Prinzip der Atomizität, Autonomie und die Notwendigkeit von Verknüpfungen." ([Clear 2020:11](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/SFQLIRC3?page=11))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Beachte%20dabei%20das%20Prinzip%20der%20Atomizita%CC%88t,%20Autonom%2071352e8b93ee482db22bfdb9b588f21b.md)

["The slip-box is not a collection of notes. Working with it is less about retrieving specific notes and more about being pointed to relevant facts and generating insight by letting ideas mingle. Its usability grows with its size, not just linearly but exponentially. When we turn to the slip-box, its inner connectedness will not just provide us with isolated facts, but with lines of developed thoughts. Moreover, because of its inner complexity, a search thought the slip-box will confront us with related notes we did not look for." ([Ahrens 2017:55](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=55))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/The%20slip-box%20is%20not%20a%20collection%20of%20notes%20Working%20%20d7e730ee34d540e9807c721020ee580d.md)

["Every step is accompanied by questions like: How does this fact fit into my idea of ...? How can this phenomenon be explained by that theory? Are these two ideas contradictory or do they complement each other? Isn't this argument similar to that one? Haven't I heard this before? And above all: What does x mean for y?" ([Ahrens 2017:67](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=67))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Every%20step%20is%20accompanied%20by%20questions%20like%20How%20do%205d2f3c5fc1354987be1dd3294dcc2b4e.md)

["When we extract ideas from the specific context of a text, we deal with ideas that serve a specific purpose in a particular context, support a specific argument, are part of a theory that isn't ours or written in a language we wouldn't use. This is why we have to translate them into our own language to prepare them to be embedded into new contexts of our own thinking, the different context(s) within the slip-box. Translating means to give the truest possible account of the original work, using different words - it does not mean the freedom to make something fit. As well, the mere copying of quotes almost always changes their meaning by stripping them out of context, even though the words aren't changed. This is a common beginner mistake, which can only lead to a patchwork of ideas, but never a coherent thought." ([Ahrens 2017:73](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=73))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/When%20we%20extract%20ideas%20from%20the%20specific%20context%20of%205948fabf2b964a7bb2b0735fa7486287.md)

["Ideally, new notes are written with explicit reference to already existing notes. Obviously, this is not always possible, especially in the beginning when the slip-box is still in its infancy, but it will very soon become the first option most of the time. Then you can put the new note "behind" an existing, related note straight away. […] one note can become the follow-up note to different notes at the same time. These note sequences are the backbone of text development. They combine the advantages of an abstract with a topic-related order. A pure topic-related order would have to be organised top down and requires a hierarchical order up front. A pure abstract order would not allow idea clusters and topics to be built bottom up. The individual notes would stay mostly independent and isolated with only one-dimensional references - pretty much like a oneperson Wikipedia stripped of the knowledge and fact-checking abilities of the community. But a loose order of sequences allows freedom to change course when necessary and provides enough structure to build up complexity." ([Ahrens 2017:101](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=101))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Ideally,%20new%20notes%20are%20written%20with%20explicit%20refer%2080ebd6a782d645e591db8df143688637.md)

["Because the slip-box is not intended to be an encyclopaedia, but a tool to think with, we don't need to worry about completeness. We don't need to write anything down just to bridge a gap in a note sequence. We only write if it helps us with our own thinking." ([Ahrens 2017:101](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=101))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Because%20the%20slip-box%20is%20not%20intended%20to%20be%20an%20ency%20a5d0f0f444eb4f57b0670835a823f327.md)

["We extract information from different linear sources and mix it all up and shake it until new patterns emerge. Then, we form these patterns into new linear texts." ([Ahrens 2017:102](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=102))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/We%20extract%20information%20from%20different%20linear%20sourc%201954826c1f7c4a7ebf84279e23d343af.md)

["Luhmann would add the number of one or two (rarely more) notes next to a keyword in the index" ([Ahrens 2017:102](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=102))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Luhmann%20would%20add%20the%20number%20of%20one%20or%20two%20(rarely%20a979edf53d3e484db56c84859c39738f.md)

["Because it should not be used as an archive, where we just take out what we put in, but as a system to think with, the references between the notes are much more important than the references from the index to a single note. […] liberating our brains from the task of organizing the notes is the main reason we use the slip-box in the first place." ([Ahrens 2017:102](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=102))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/Because%20it%20should%20not%20be%20used%20as%20an%20archive,%20where%2093dcebe504f84e8288f5299349b16f92.md)

["A few wisely chosen notes are sufficient for each entry point. The quicker we get from the index to the concrete notes, the quicker we move our attention from mentally preconceived ideas towards the fact-rich level of interconnected content, where we can conduct a fact-based dialogue with the slip-box." ([Ahrens 2017:103](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=103))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/A%20few%20wisely%20chosen%20notes%20are%20sufficient%20for%20each%20%207ad4a4c1ca794299b3da5acc44bcc986.md)

["In the digital version of the Zettelkasten, all we need to do is to click on "Links" and add the number of the note we want to refer to. It then automatically adds a backlink to the note we refer from. Even though the Zettelkasten makes suggestions here, too, for example based on joint literature references, making good cross-references is a matter of serious thinking and a crucial part of the development of thoughts." ([Ahrens 2017:105](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=105))](Links%20as%20a%20necessary%20relation%20between%20blocks%20bf8ea7f4c27244b88a181dfaf08700c6/In%20the%20digital%20version%20of%20the%20Zettelkasten,%20all%20we%20aeebef31b0ac4d5f84f1e63628c48d8d.md)