# Use atomic blocks as units

Topic: Kompetenzentwicklung, Wissensmanagement
Topics: Design%20UI%20&%20Funktionalita%CC%88t%20a8abc7de888f4df7a7c19a930344ef0e.md
Type: Claim

[Length limit?](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Length%20limit%20cd133b53f584415aa74b552c260cb402.md)

["Jede Notiz sollte autonom sein, das heißt sie sollte in sich geschlossen und für sich verständlich sein. . Außerdem wird sichergestellt, dass Notizen auch dann nützlich bleiben, wenn die ursprüngliche Informationsquelle verschwindet." ([Clear 2020:11](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/SFQLIRC3?page=11))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Jede%20Notiz%20sollte%20autonom%20sein,%20das%20hei%C3%9Ft%20sie%20soll%20293bbdcb9cbf4db8b1c6c8692669105f.md)

["Making a note discoverable involves making it small, simple, and easy to digest. We accomplish this using compression: creating highly condensed summaries [...]. But we also want to make our notes understandable. This involves including all the context [...]. This is a difficult tradeoff because you cannot compress something without losing some of its context." ([Forte 2017:5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DHH2FKWF?page=5))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Making%20a%20note%20discoverable%20involves%20making%20it%20smal%20fc0d8f430d784dbfa51ae18bebe21541.md)

["Many commercial (e.g., Mendeley, Zotero) and research literature review tools [11, 21] explicitly or implicitly assume that the paper is the unit of interaction. Functioning like "iTunes for papers", researchers import papers, reason about relationships between papers (e.g., with tags, stars, citation links), annotate papers, and export papers as citations in written literature reviews." ([Qian et al 2019:342](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=2))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Many%20commercial%20(e%20g%20,%20Mendeley,%20Zotero)%20and%20resea%20df96d94311634df0b5edea05a8890fea.md)

["Some research systems have been proposed, such as "micropublications" [6] in bioinformatics, but uptake has been limited." ([Qian et al 2019:343](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=3))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Some%20research%20systems%20have%20been%20proposed,%20such%20as%20%2033afd1b14516418fb0aea3208722d304.md)

["We argue that systems should enable researchers to work directly with grounded claims. Grounded claims are concise statements grounded in context that helps a user understand, interpret, judge, and use a claim (see Fig. 1). For example, a claim might be contextualized by its evidence, such as a key figure or experiment details, or related claims that corroborate, oppose, or clarify a focal claim. The provenance of a claim, such as its source collaboration networks, institutional dynamics, and prestige, can be important context for understanding its validity and impact" ([Qian et al 2019:342](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=2))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/We%20argue%20that%20systems%20should%20enable%20researchers%20to%208048c18e72964ac8a4a395d3fd35f6c6.md)

["The focal claim (A) is explicitly connected to a claim from another study that closely replicates it (B), and implicitly connected to a similar (but not exactly alike) claim (C). Another claim about the amount of reading scientists must do (D) suggests a potential explanation for scientists' reading behaviors. Clicking on a "min/max" button on the context segments toggles whether they are expanded or collapsed (E). If the user needs more information, there is a direct link (F) back to the location surrounding the claim." ([Qian et al 2019:343](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=3))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/The%20focal%20claim%20(A)%20is%20explicitly%20connected%20to%20a%20c%20005c47dfeb054f68ba0d8e3564a31ac2.md)

["the cognitive costs of deciding in advance what details need to be retained as context for future reuse [2], with costly consequences for downstream task performance if a premature and inaccurate decision is made early on [15]. Also, systems that require high amounts of precision for specifying context during sensemaking may impose unnecessary interaction costs" ([Qian et al 2019:343](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=3))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/the%20cognitive%20costs%20of%20deciding%20in%20advance%20what%20de%20c79247380c114aacb66f008b8010d3d0.md)

["In Knowledge Compressor, claims can be grounded by two kinds of context: 1) evidence: claims can be easily linked to one or more "segments" of a source PDF document (e.g., table, figure, methods details, quote) (see Fig. 3) and 2) related claims: claims can be connected (either with explicit links, or implicitly, by spatial proximity) to other claims on our claim canvas, which operates similarly to argument diagramming and modeling software" ([Qian et al 2019:343](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=3))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/In%20Knowledge%20Compressor,%20claims%20can%20be%20grounded%20by%2082a25b75ba4449b0982fdc0c289e1221.md)

["Users create claims by selecting a segment of the source document in the reading pane and writing a (re)description of the associated claim. […] Users can adjust "flexibly compressed" context segments. For example, a user can scroll up in the segment to note that evidence for this claim comes from interviews […] and reason about reliability/diversity of evidence, or extract more details about which sections tend to be read for what kinds of tasks to inform design of a system that highlights specific sections for specific tasks." ([Qian et al 2019:344](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=4))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Users%20create%20claims%20by%20selecting%20a%20segment%20of%20the%20%208a29ecd651d04c85a592125db41e303b.md)

["Unlike conventional annotation, however, these segments are flexible, and can be adjusted/expanded by the reuser, because they are "live slices" of the source PDF (powered by a pdfjs React component)" ([Qian et al 2019:344](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/XI3NC562?page=4))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Unlike%20conventional%20annotation,%20however,%20these%20seg%20fcf0db0af22041c89eb532b5524eb26e.md)

["1. Make fleeting notes. […] 2. Make literature notes. Whenever you read something, make notes about the content. Write down what you don't want to forget or think you might use in your own thinking or writing. Keep it very short, be extremely selective, and use your own words. Be extra selective with quotes - don't copy them to skip the step of really understanding what they mean. Keep these notes together with the bibliographic details in one place - your reference system. 3. Make permanent notes. Now turn to your slip-box. Go through the notes you made in step one or two (ideally once a day and before you forget what you meant) and think about how they relate to what is relevant for your own research, thinking or interests. […] write as if you were writing for someone else: Use full sentences, disclose your sources, make references and try to be as precise, clear and brief as possible. Throw away the fleeting notes from step one and put the literature notes from step two into your reference system. You can forget about them now. […] 4. Now add your new permanent notes to the slip-box by: a) Filing each one behind one or more related notes […] Look to which note the new one directly relates or, if it does not relate directly to any other note yet, just file it behind the last one. […] b) Adding links to related notes. c) Making sure you will be able to find this note later by either linking to it from your index or by making a link to it on a note that you use as an entry point to a discussion or topic and is itself linked to the index. […] 5. Develop your topics, questions and research projects bottom up from within the system. See what is there, what is missing and what questions arise. Read more to challenge and strengthen your arguments and change and develop your arguments according to the new information you are learning about. […] Even if you don't have anything in your slip-box yet, you never start from scratch - you already have ideas on your mind to be tested, opinions to be challenged and questions to be answered. Do not brainstorm for a topic. Look into the slip-box instead to see where chains of notes have developed and ideas have been built up to clusters. Don't cling to an idea if another, more promising one gains momentum. […] 6. After a while, you will have developed ideas far enough to decide on a topic to write about. Your topic is now based on what you have, not based on an unfounded idea about what the literature you are about to read might provide. Look through the connections and collect all the relevant notes on this topic (most of the relevant notes will already be in partial order), copy them onto your "desktop" [6] and bring them in order. Look for what is missing and what is redundant. […] 7. Turn your notes into a rough draft. Don't simply copy your notes into a manuscript. Translate them into something coherent and embed them into the context of your argument while you build your argument out of the notes at the same time. Detect holes in your argument, fill them or change your argument. 8. Edit and proofread your manuscript." ([Ahrens 2017:29](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=29))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/1%20Make%20fleeting%20notes%20%5B%E2%80%A6%5D%202%20Make%20literature%20notes%20%203a609b8fa6b647eba2e343179a57d21d.md)

["it is crucial to distinguish clearly between three types of notes: 1. Fleeting notes […] 2. Permanent notes, which will never be thrown away and contain the necessary information in themselves in a permanently understandable way. […] 3. Project notes, which are only relevant to one particular project. […] One of the major reasons for not getting much writing or publishing done lies in the confusion of these categories." ([Ahrens 2017:43](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=43))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/it%20is%20crucial%20to%20distinguish%20clearly%20between%20three%209d554a95ce364e8aa27d1464db8d4e11.md)

["The only permanently stored notes are the literature notes in the reference system and the main notes in the slip-box. The former can be very brief as the context is clearly the text they refer to. The latter need be written with more care and details as they need to be self-explanatory. Luhmann never underlined sentences in the text he read or wrote comments in the margins. All he did was take brief notes about the ideas that caught his attention in a text on a separate piece of paper" ([Ahrens 2017:45](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=45))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/The%20only%20permanently%20stored%20notes%20are%20the%20literatu%20a4b57cd6798843a3b1e5f81cbd7927af.md)

["Project-related notes can be: · comments in the manuscript · collections of project-related literature · outlines · snippets of drafts · reminders · to-do lists · and of course the draft itself." ([Ahrens 2017:46](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=46))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Project-related%20notes%20can%20be%20%C2%B7%20comments%20in%20the%20man%20fcbfd2652a154f438c391818a2705c82.md)

["keeps the permanent notes from the project-related notes clearly separated and allows you to experiment and tinker with them as much as you like within the boundaries of each project without interfering with the actual slip-box." ([Ahrens 2017:47](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=47))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/keeps%20the%20permanent%20notes%20from%20the%20project-related%200d6c6034deed4ae6a2adb44384f4abb6.md)

["Literature notes are short and meant to help with writing slip-box notes. Everything else either helps to get to this point or is a distraction." ([Ahrens 2017:74](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=74))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/Literature%20notes%20are%20short%20and%20meant%20to%20help%20with%20%209d5a439877a84b85bfb809ffe9df57a8.md)

["restriction to one idea per note is also the precondition to recombine them freely later. Luhmann choose notes in the format A6" ([Ahrens 2017:120](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=120))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/restriction%20to%20one%20idea%20per%20note%20is%20also%20the%20preco%202d78734ac70d424985bee9a5add0099a.md)

["These standardizations make it possible that the technical side of note-taking can become automatic. […] Thinking and creativity can flourish under restricted conditions and there are plenty of studies to back that claim (cf. Stokes 2001; Rheinberger 1997). The scientific revolution started with the standardization and controlling of experiments, which made them comparable and repeatable […] The biggest threat to creativity and scientific progress is therefore the opposite: a lack of structure and restrictions. Without structure, we cannot differentiate, compare or experiment with ideas. Without restrictions, we would never be forced to make the decision on what is worth pursuing and what is not. Indifference is the worst environment for insight. And the slipbox is, above all, a tool for enforcing distinctions, decisions and making differences visible. One thing is for sure: the common idea that we should liberate ourselves from any restrictions and "open ourselves up" to be more creative is very misleading indeed" ([Ahrens 2017:121](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/ZYMH3KIN?page=121))](Use%20atomic%20blocks%20as%20units%20f9ab25999d0c479794199fb8a6c6221c/These%20standardizations%20make%20it%20possible%20that%20the%20t%20a61593ccde294c9082beec1699c12901.md)