# "Niklas Luhmann […] One day, he put some of these thoughts together into a manuscript and handed it over to Helmut Schelsky […] He suggested that he should become a professor of sociology in the newly founded University of Bielefeld. As attractive and prestigious as this position was, Luhmann wasn't a sociologist. He didn't have the formal qualifications required even to become an assistant for a sociology professor in Germany. He hadn't written a habilitation […] He had never held a doctorate or even obtained a sociology degree. […] He turned to his slip-box and with its help he put together a doctoral thesis and the habilitation thesis in less than a year - while taking classes in sociology. Shortly after, in 1968, he was chosen to become professor of sociology at the University of Bielefeld - a position he would hold for the rest of his life. […] Luhmann, too, was asked what his main research project will be. His answer would become famous. He laconically stated: "My project: theory of society. Duration: 30 years. Costs: zero" (Luhmann, 1997, 11). […] n 30 years, he published 58 books and hundreds of articles […] Even after his death, about half a dozen more books on diverse subjects like religion, education or politics were published in his name - based on almost finished manuscripts lying around in his office. There are more than a few colleagues I know who would give a lot to be as productive in their whole lifetime as Luhmann was after his death. While some career-oriented academics try to squeeze as many publications out of one idea as possible, Luhmann seemed to do the opposite. He constantly generated more ideas than he was able to write down. His texts read as if he is trying to squeeze as much insight and as many ideas as possible into one publication. […] Luhmann rarely had any assistance at all. The last assistant who worked for him swore blind that the only help he was able to give was to spot a few typos in his manuscripts here and there. Luhmann's only real help was a housekeeper who cooked for him and his children during the week, not that extraordinary considering he had to raise three children on his own after his wife died early. […] he seemed to achieve all this with almost no real effort. He not only stressed that he never forced himself to do something he didn't feel like, he even said: "I only do what is easy. I only write when I immediately know how to do it. If I falter for a moment, I put the matter aside and do something else."" (Ahrens 2017:20)

Source: Ahrens,%20So%CC%88nke%20How%20to%20Take%20Smart%20Notes%20One%20Simple%20%20e14e62b7b1ba48168a82038c9264cb41.md
Topic: Wissensmanagement
Type: Quote